website/src/pages/plugins/presets/preset-client.mdx, before:

---
title: client-preset
---

import { Callout, PackageCmd } from '@theguild/components'
import { PluginApiDocs, PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
import { Tree, File, Folder } from '../../../components/file-tree'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<PluginHeader />

---

The `client-preset` provides typed GraphQL operations (Query, Mutation and Subscription) by perfectly integrating with your favorite GraphQL clients:

- **React**

  - `@apollo/client` (since `3.2.0`, not when using React Components (`<Query>`))
  - `@urql/core` (since `1.15.0`)
  - `@urql/preact` (since `1.4.0`)
  - `urql` (since `1.11.0`)
  - `graphql-request` (since `5.0.0`)
  - `react-query` (with `graphql-request@5.x`)
  - `swr` (with `graphql-request@5.x`)

- **Vue**
  - `@vue/apollo-composable` (since `4.0.0-alpha.13`)
  - `villus` (since `1.0.0-beta.8`)
  - `@urql/vue` (since `1.11.0`)

If your stack is not listed above, please refer to our framework/language specific plugins in the left navigation.

## Getting started

For step-by-step instructions, please [refer to our dedicated guide](/docs/guides/react-vue).

## Config API

The `client` preset allows the following `config` options:

- [`scalars`](/plugins/typescript/typescript#scalars): Extends or overrides the built-in scalars and custom GraphQL scalars to a custom type.
- [`defaultScalarType`](/plugins/typescript/typescript#defaultscalartype): Allows you to override the type that unknown `scalars` will have. Defaults to `any`.
- [`strictScalars`](/plugins/typescript/typescript#strictscalars): If `scalars` are found in the schema that are not defined in scalars an error will be thrown during codegen.
- [`namingConvention`](/plugins/typescript/typescript#namingconvention): Available case functions in `change-case-all` are `camelCase`, `capitalCase`, `constantCase`, `dotCase`, `headerCase`, `noCase`, `paramCase`, `pascalCase`, `pathCase`, `sentenceCase`, `snakeCase`, `lowerCase`, `localeLowerCase`, `lowerCaseFirst`, `spongeCase`, `titleCase`, `upperCase`, `localeUpperCase` and `upperCaseFirst`.
- [`useTypeImports`](/plugins/typescript/typescript#usetypeimports): Will use `import type {}` rather than `import {}` when importing only types. This gives compatibility with TypeScript's [`"importsNotUsedAsValues": "error"`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig#importsNotUsedAsValues) option.
- [`skipTypename`](/plugins/typescript/typescript#skiptypename): Does not add `__typename` to the generated types, unless it was specified in the selection set.
- [`arrayInputCoercion`](/plugins/typescript/typescript-operations#arrayinputcoercion): The [GraphQL spec](https://spec.graphql.org/draft/#sel-FAHjBJFCAACE_Gh7d) allows arrays and a single primitive value for list input. This allows to deactivate that behavior to only accept arrays instead of single values.
- [`enumsAsTypes`](/plugins/typescript/typescript#enumsastypes): Generates enum as TypeScript string union `type` instead of an `enum`. Useful if you wish to generate `.d.ts` declaration file instead of `.ts`, or if you want to avoid using TypeScript enums due to bundle size concerns.
- [`dedupeFragments`](/plugins/typescript/typescript#dedupefragments): Removes fragment duplicates for reducing data transfer. It is done by removing sub-fragments imports from fragment definition.
- [`nonOptionalTypename`](/plugins/typescript/typescript#nonoptionaltypename): Automatically adds `__typename` field to the generated types, even when they are not specified in the selection set, and makes it non-optional.
- [`avoidOptionals`](/plugins/typescript/typescript#avoidoptionals): This will cause the generator to avoid using TypeScript optionals (`?`) on types.

For more information or feature request, please [refer to the repository discussions](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/discussions).

## Fragment Masking

As explained in [our guide](/docs/guides/react-vue), the `client-preset` comes with Fragment Masking enabled by default.

This section covers this concept and associated options in detail.

### Embrace Fragment Masking principles

Fragment Masking helps express components' data dependencies with GraphQL Fragments.

By doing so, we ensure that the tree of data is properly passed down to the components without "leaking" data.
It also allows to colocate the Fragment definitions with their components counterparts:

```tsx filename="src/Film.tsx" {4-11}
import { FragmentType, useFragment } from './gql/fragment-masking'
import { graphql } from '../src/gql'

export const FilmFragment = graphql(/* GraphQL */ `
  fragment FilmItem on Film {
    id
    title
    releaseDate
    producers
  }
`)

const Film = (props: { film: FragmentType<typeof FilmFragment> }) => {
  const film = useFragment(FilmFragment, props.film)
  return (
    <div>
      <h3>{film.title}</h3>
      <p>{film.releaseDate}</p>
    </div>
  )
}

export default Film
```

For a deeper and more visual explanation of Fragment Masking, please refer to [Laurin](https://twitter.com/n1rual)'s article: [Unleash the power of Fragments with GraphQL Codegen
](https://the-guild.dev/blog/unleash-the-power-of-fragments-with-graphql-codegen)

For an introduction on how to design your GraphQL Query to leverage Fragment Masking, please refer to [our guide](/docs/guides/react-vue).

#### The `FragmentType<T>` type

As explained in [our guide](/docs/guides/react-vue), the top-level GraphQL Query should include the fragment (`...FilmItem`) and pass down the data to child components.

At the component props definition level, the `FragmentType<T>` type ensures that the passed data contains the required fragment (here: `FilmFragment` aka `FilmItem` in GraphQL).

```tsx filename="src/Film.tsx" {14-15}
import { FragmentType, useFragment } from './gql/fragment-masking'
import { graphql } from '../src/gql'

export const FilmFragment = graphql(/* GraphQL */ `
  fragment FilmItem on Film {
    id
    title
    releaseDate
    producers
  }
`)

const Film = (props: {
  /* the passed `film` property contains a valid `FilmItem` fragment 🎉 */
  film: FragmentType<typeof FilmFragment>
}) => {
  const film = useFragment(FilmFragment, props.film)
  return (
    <div>
      <h3>{film.title}</h3>
      <p>{film.releaseDate}</p>
    </div>
  )
}

export default Film
```

<Callout type="warning">
**`FragmentType<T>` is not the Fragment's type**

A common misconception is to mix `FragmentType<T>` and the Fragment's type.
For example, for helper functions, testing, or if you don't use Fragment Masking,
you should get the Fragment's type directly. In this scenario, you must import
it from the generated files or extract it from the Fragment's definition,
as described in [the next section](#getting-a-fragments-type).

</Callout>

#### The `useFragment()` helper

The `useFragment()` function helps narrow down the Fragment type from a given data object (ex: `film` object to a `FilmFragment` object):

```tsx filename="src/Film.tsx" {14-15}
import { FragmentType, useFragment } from './gql/fragment-masking'
import { graphql } from '../src/gql'

export const FilmFragment = graphql(/* GraphQL */ `
  fragment FilmItem on Film {
    id
    title
    releaseDate
    producers
  }
`)

const Film = (props: { film: FragmentType<typeof FilmFragment> }) => {
  const film = useFragment(FilmFragment, props.film)
  // `film` is of type `FilmItemFragment` 🎉
  return (
    <div>
      <h3>{film.title}</h3>
      <p>{film.releaseDate}</p>
    </div>
  )
}

export default Film
```

<Callout type="info">
**`useFragment()` is not a React hook**

`useFragment()` can be used without following React's rules of hooks.
To avoid any issue with ESLint, we recommend changing its naming to `getFragmentData()` by setting the proper `unmaskFunctionName` value:

```ts filename="codegen.ts" {10-12}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.graphql',
  documents: ['src/**/*.tsx', '!src/gql/**/*'],
  generates: {
    './src/gql/': {
      preset: 'client',
      presetConfig: {
        fragmentMasking: { unmaskFunctionName: 'getFragmentData' }
      }
    }
  }
}

export default config
```

</Callout>

### Getting a Fragment's type

Getting a Fragment's type is achieved by importing the type that corresponds to your fragment, which is named based on the fragment name with a `Fragment` suffix:

```tsx filename="src/Film.tsx" {1, 8, 15}
import { FilmItemFragment } from './gql'

const allFilmsWithVariablesQueryDocument = graphql(/* GraphQL */ `
  query allFilmsWithVariablesQuery($first: Int!) {
    allFilms(first: $first) {
      edges {
        node {
          ...FilmItem
        }
      }
    }
  }
`)

function myFilmHelper(film: FilmItemFragment) {
  // ...
}
```

Or, if you have access to the Fragment's definition, you can extract the type from it without having to "guess" the name:

```tsx filename="src/Film.tsx" {1, 3, 12}
import { ResultOf } from '@graphql-typed-document-node/core'

export const FilmFragment = graphql(/* GraphQL */ `
  fragment FilmItem on Film {
    id
    title
    releaseDate
    producers
  }
`)

function myFilmHelper(film: ResultOf<typeof FilmFragment>) {
  // ...
}
```

### Fragment Masking with nested Fragments

When dealing with nested Fragments, the `useFragment()` should also be used in a "nested way".

You can find a complete working example here: [Nested Fragment example on GitHub](https://github.com/charlypoly/codegen-repros/blob/master/client-preset-nested-fragments-interface/src/App.tsx).

### Fragment Masking and testing

A React component that relies on Fragment Masking won't accept "plain object" as follows:

```tsx filename="ProfileName.spec.ts" {4}
// ...

type ProfileNameProps = {
  profile: FragmentType<typeof ProfileName_PersonFragmentDoc>
}

const ProfileName = ({ profile }: ProfileNameProps) => {
  const { name } = useFragment(ProfileName_PersonFragmentDoc, profile)
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Person Name: {name}</h1>
    </div>
  )
}
```

```tsx filename="ProfileName.spec.ts" {8}
// ...

describe('<ProfileName />', () => {
  it('renders correctly', () => {
    const profile = { name: 'Adam' }
    render(
      <ProfileName
        profile={profile} // <-- this will throw TypeScript errors
      />
    )

    expect(screen.getByText('Person Name: Adam')).toBeInTheDocument()
  })
})
```

Since the component expects to receive "Masked data", you will need to import the `makeFragmentData()` helper to "build" some masked data, as follow:

```tsx filename="ProfileName.spec.ts" {7}
// ...
import { makeFragmentData } from '../gql'

describe('<ProfileName />', () => {
  it('renders correctly', () => {
    const profile = { name: 'Adam' }
    render(<ProfileName profile={makeFragmentData(profile, ProfileName_PersonFragmentDoc)} />)

    expect(screen.getByText('Person Name: Adam')).toBeInTheDocument()
  })
})
```

### How to disable Fragment Masking

`client-preset`'s Fragment Masking can be disabled as follow:

```ts filename="codegen.ts" {10-12}
import { type CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.graphql',
  documents: ['src/**/*.tsx', '!src/gql/**/*'],
  generates: {
    './src/gql/': {
      preset: 'client',
      presetConfig: {
        fragmentMasking: false
      }
    }
  }
}

export default config
```

## Persisted documents

Persisted documents (often also referred to as persisted queries or persisted documents) is a technique for reducing client to server upstream traffic by sending a unique identifier instead of the full GraphQL document.
It is also commonly used to reduce the size of the client bundle as well as to improve security by preventing the client from sending and executing arbitrary GraphQL operations.

<Callout type="info">
  You can find [a functional example using GraphQL Yoga within our Codegen Examples on
  GitHub](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/tree/master/examples/persisted-documents).
</Callout>

Persisted documents can be enabled by setting the `persistedDocuments` option to `true`:

```ts filename="codegen.ts" {10-12}
import { type CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.graphql',
  documents: ['src/**/*.tsx'],
  generates: {
    './src/gql/': {
      preset: 'client',
      presetConfig: {
        persistedDocuments: true
      }
    }
  }
}
```

By enabling this option GraphQL Code Generator will generate an additional file `persisted-documents.json` within your artifacts location.

<Tree>
  <Folder name="gql" defaultOpen>
    <File name="fragment-masking.ts" />
    <File name="gql.ts" />
    <File name="graphql.ts" />
    <File name="index.ts" />
    <File name="persisted-documents.json" active />
  </Folder>
</Tree>

This file contains a mapping of the document's hash to the document's content.

```json filename="persisted-documents.json"
{
  "b2c3d4e5f6g7h8i9j0a1": "query Hello { hello }",
  "kae4fe7f6g7h8i9ej0ag": "mutation echo($msg: String!) { echo(message: $msg) }"
}
```

In addition the document hash will be added to the generated document node as a `hash` property.

```ts filename="app.ts"
import { graphql } from './gql'

const HelloQuery = graphql(/* GraphQL */ `
  query Hello {
    hello
  }
`)

// logs "b2c3d4e5f6g7h8i9j0a1"
console.log(HelloQuery['__meta__']['hash'])
```

This hash can be used in the network layer of your GraphQL client to send the document hash instead of the document string.

<Callout type="info">
  Note that the server you sent the document hash to must be able to resolve the document hash to the document string.
</Callout>

```ts filename="Fetch example"
import { graphql } from './gql'

const HelloQuery = graphql(/* GraphQL */ `
  query Hello {
    hello
  }
`)

const response = await fetch('http://yoga/graphql', {
  method: 'POST',
  headers: {
    'content-type': 'application/json',
    accept: 'application/json'
  },
  body: JSON.stringify({
    extensions: {
      persistedQuery: {
        version: 1,
        sha256Hash: HelloQuery['__meta__']['hash']
      }
    }
  })
})

console.log(response.status)
console.log(await response.json())
```

## Reducing bundle size: Babel plugin

Large scale projects might want to enable code splitting or tree shaking on the `client-preset` generated files.
This is because instead of using the map which contains all GraphQL operations in the project,
we can use the specific generated document types.

The `client-preset` comes with a Babel and a swc plugin that enables it.

### Babel plugin

To configure the Babel plugin, update (or create) your `.babelrc.js` as follow:

```js filename=".babelrc.js"
const { babelOptimizerPlugin } = require('@graphql-codegen/client-preset')

module.exports = {
  presets: ['react-app'],
  plugins: [[babelOptimizerPlugin, { artifactDirectory: './src/gql', gqlTagName: 'graphql' }]]
}
```

### SWC plugin

The SWC plugin is not bundled in the `client-preset` package, so you will need to install it separately:

<PackageCmd packages={['-D @graphql-codegen/client-preset-swc-plugin']} />

#### General

To use the SWC plugin without Next.js, update your `.swcrc` to add the following:

```json5 filename=".swcrc"
{
  // ...
  jsc: {
    // ...
    experimental: {
      plugins: [
        ['@graphql-codegen/client-preset-swc-plugin', { artifactDirectory: './src/gql', gqlTagName: 'graphql' }]
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

#### Vite React

To use the SWC plugin with Vite React, update your `vite.config.ts` to add the following:

```ts filename="vite.config.ts" {2,8-10}
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import react from '@vitejs/plugin-react-swc'

// https://vitejs.dev/config/
export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    react({
      plugins: [
        ['@graphql-codegen/client-preset-swc-plugin', { artifactDirectory: './src/gql', gqlTagName: 'graphql' }]
      ]
    })
  ]
})
```

#### Next.js

To use the SWC plugin with Next.js, update your `next.config.js` to add the following:

```js filename="next.config.js"
const nextConfig = {
  // ...
  experimental: {
    swcPlugins: [
      ['@graphql-codegen/client-preset-swc-plugin', { artifactDirectory: './src/gql', gqlTagName: 'graphql' }]
    ]
  }
}
```

Note that you will need to provide the `artifactDirectory` path that should be the same as the one configured in your `codegen.ts`

Commit message:

docs: update docs to acknowledge swc plugin is experimental

website/src/pages/plugins/presets/preset-client.mdx, after:

---
title: client-preset
---

import { Callout, PackageCmd } from '@theguild/components'
import { PluginApiDocs, PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
import { Tree, File, Folder } from '../../../components/file-tree'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<PluginHeader />

---

The `client-preset` provides typed GraphQL operations (Query, Mutation and Subscription) by perfectly integrating with your favorite GraphQL clients:

- **React**

  - `@apollo/client` (since `3.2.0`, not when using React Components (`<Query>`))
  - `@urql/core` (since `1.15.0`)
  - `@urql/preact` (since `1.4.0`)
  - `urql` (since `1.11.0`)
  - `graphql-request` (since `5.0.0`)
  - `react-query` (with `graphql-request@5.x`)
  - `swr` (with `graphql-request@5.x`)

- **Vue**
  - `@vue/apollo-composable` (since `4.0.0-alpha.13`)
  - `villus` (since `1.0.0-beta.8`)
  - `@urql/vue` (since `1.11.0`)

If your stack is not listed above, please refer to our framework/language specific plugins in the left navigation.

## Getting started

For step-by-step instructions, please [refer to our dedicated guide](/docs/guides/react-vue).

## Config API

The `client` preset allows the following `config` options:

- [`scalars`](/plugins/typescript/typescript#scalars): Extends or overrides the built-in scalars and custom GraphQL scalars to a custom type.
- [`defaultScalarType`](/plugins/typescript/typescript#defaultscalartype): Allows you to override the type that unknown `scalars` will have. Defaults to `any`.
- [`strictScalars`](/plugins/typescript/typescript#strictscalars): If `scalars` are found in the schema that are not defined in scalars an error will be thrown during codegen.
- [`namingConvention`](/plugins/typescript/typescript#namingconvention): Available case functions in `change-case-all` are `camelCase`, `capitalCase`, `constantCase`, `dotCase`, `headerCase`, `noCase`, `paramCase`, `pascalCase`, `pathCase`, `sentenceCase`, `snakeCase`, `lowerCase`, `localeLowerCase`, `lowerCaseFirst`, `spongeCase`, `titleCase`, `upperCase`, `localeUpperCase` and `upperCaseFirst`.
- [`useTypeImports`](/plugins/typescript/typescript#usetypeimports): Will use `import type {}` rather than `import {}` when importing only types. This gives compatibility with TypeScript's [`"importsNotUsedAsValues": "error"`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig#importsNotUsedAsValues) option.
- [`skipTypename`](/plugins/typescript/typescript#skiptypename): Does not add `__typename` to the generated types, unless it was specified in the selection set.
- [`arrayInputCoercion`](/plugins/typescript/typescript-operations#arrayinputcoercion): The [GraphQL spec](https://spec.graphql.org/draft/#sel-FAHjBJFCAACE_Gh7d) allows arrays and a single primitive value for list input. This allows to deactivate that behavior to only accept arrays instead of single values.
- [`enumsAsTypes`](/plugins/typescript/typescript#enumsastypes): Generates enum as TypeScript string union `type` instead of an `enum`. Useful if you wish to generate `.d.ts` declaration file instead of `.ts`, or if you want to avoid using TypeScript enums due to bundle size concerns.
- [`dedupeFragments`](/plugins/typescript/typescript#dedupefragments): Removes fragment duplicates for reducing data transfer. It is done by removing sub-fragments imports from fragment definition.
- [`nonOptionalTypename`](/plugins/typescript/typescript#nonoptionaltypename): Automatically adds `__typename` field to the generated types, even when they are not specified in the selection set, and makes it non-optional.
- [`avoidOptionals`](/plugins/typescript/typescript#avoidoptionals): This will cause the generator to avoid using TypeScript optionals (`?`) on types.

For more information or feature request, please [refer to the repository discussions](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/discussions).

## Fragment Masking

As explained in [our guide](/docs/guides/react-vue), the `client-preset` comes with Fragment Masking enabled by default.

This section covers this concept and associated options in detail.

### Embrace Fragment Masking principles

Fragment Masking helps express components' data dependencies with GraphQL Fragments.

By doing so, we ensure that the tree of data is properly passed down to the components without "leaking" data.
It also allows to colocate the Fragment definitions with their components counterparts:

```tsx filename="src/Film.tsx" {4-11}
import { FragmentType, useFragment } from './gql/fragment-masking'
import { graphql } from '../src/gql'

export const FilmFragment = graphql(/* GraphQL */ `
  fragment FilmItem on Film {
    id
    title
    releaseDate
    producers
  }
`)

const Film = (props: { film: FragmentType<typeof FilmFragment> }) => {
  const film = useFragment(FilmFragment, props.film)
  return (
    <div>
      <h3>{film.title}</h3>
      <p>{film.releaseDate}</p>
    </div>
  )
}

export default Film
```

For a deeper and more visual explanation of Fragment Masking, please refer to [Laurin](https://twitter.com/n1rual)'s article: [Unleash the power of Fragments with GraphQL Codegen
](https://the-guild.dev/blog/unleash-the-power-of-fragments-with-graphql-codegen)

For an introduction on how to design your GraphQL Query to leverage Fragment Masking, please refer to [our guide](/docs/guides/react-vue).

#### The `FragmentType<T>` type

As explained in [our guide](/docs/guides/react-vue), the top-level GraphQL Query should include the fragment (`...FilmItem`) and pass down the data to child components.

At the component props definition level, the `FragmentType<T>` type ensures that the passed data contains the required fragment (here: `FilmFragment` aka `FilmItem` in GraphQL).

```tsx filename="src/Film.tsx" {14-15}
import { FragmentType, useFragment } from './gql/fragment-masking'
import { graphql } from '../src/gql'

export const FilmFragment = graphql(/* GraphQL */ `
  fragment FilmItem on Film {
    id
    title
    releaseDate
    producers
  }
`)

const Film = (props: {
  /* the passed `film` property contains a valid `FilmItem` fragment 🎉 */
  film: FragmentType<typeof FilmFragment>
}) => {
  const film = useFragment(FilmFragment, props.film)
  return (
    <div>
      <h3>{film.title}</h3>
      <p>{film.releaseDate}</p>
    </div>
  )
}

export default Film
```

<Callout type="warning">
**`FragmentType<T>` is not the Fragment's type**

A common misconception is to mix `FragmentType<T>` and the Fragment's type.
For example, for helper functions, testing, or if you don't use Fragment Masking,
you should get the Fragment's type directly. In this scenario, you must import
it from the generated files or extract it from the Fragment's definition,
as described in [the next section](#getting-a-fragments-type).

</Callout>

#### The `useFragment()` helper

The `useFragment()` function helps narrow down the Fragment type from a given data object (ex: `film` object to a `FilmFragment` object):

```tsx filename="src/Film.tsx" {14-15}
import { FragmentType, useFragment } from './gql/fragment-masking'
import { graphql } from '../src/gql'

export const FilmFragment = graphql(/* GraphQL */ `
  fragment FilmItem on Film {
    id
    title
    releaseDate
    producers
  }
`)

const Film = (props: { film: FragmentType<typeof FilmFragment> }) => {
  const film = useFragment(FilmFragment, props.film)
  // `film` is of type `FilmItemFragment` 🎉
  return (
    <div>
      <h3>{film.title}</h3>
      <p>{film.releaseDate}</p>
    </div>
  )
}

export default Film
```

<Callout type="info">
**`useFragment()` is not a React hook**

`useFragment()` can be used without following React's rules of hooks.
To avoid any issue with ESLint, we recommend changing its naming to `getFragmentData()` by setting the proper `unmaskFunctionName` value:

```ts filename="codegen.ts" {10-12}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.graphql',
  documents: ['src/**/*.tsx', '!src/gql/**/*'],
  generates: {
    './src/gql/': {
      preset: 'client',
      presetConfig: {
        fragmentMasking: { unmaskFunctionName: 'getFragmentData' }
      }
    }
  }
}

export default config
```

</Callout>

### Getting a Fragment's type

Getting a Fragment's type is achieved by importing the type that corresponds to your fragment, which is named based on the fragment name with a `Fragment` suffix:

```tsx filename="src/Film.tsx" {1, 8, 15}
import { FilmItemFragment } from './gql'

const allFilmsWithVariablesQueryDocument = graphql(/* GraphQL */ `
  query allFilmsWithVariablesQuery($first: Int!) {
    allFilms(first: $first) {
      edges {
        node {
          ...FilmItem
        }
      }
    }
  }
`)

function myFilmHelper(film: FilmItemFragment) {
  // ...
}
```

Or, if you have access to the Fragment's definition, you can extract the type from it without having to "guess" the name:

```tsx filename="src/Film.tsx" {1, 3, 12}
import { ResultOf } from '@graphql-typed-document-node/core'

export const FilmFragment = graphql(/* GraphQL */ `
  fragment FilmItem on Film {
    id
    title
    releaseDate
    producers
  }
`)

function myFilmHelper(film: ResultOf<typeof FilmFragment>) {
  // ...
}
```

### Fragment Masking with nested Fragments

When dealing with nested Fragments, the `useFragment()` should also be used in a "nested way".

You can find a complete working example here: [Nested Fragment example on GitHub](https://github.com/charlypoly/codegen-repros/blob/master/client-preset-nested-fragments-interface/src/App.tsx).

### Fragment Masking and testing

A React component that relies on Fragment Masking won't accept "plain object" as follows:

```tsx filename="ProfileName.spec.ts" {4}
// ...

type ProfileNameProps = {
  profile: FragmentType<typeof ProfileName_PersonFragmentDoc>
}

const ProfileName = ({ profile }: ProfileNameProps) => {
  const { name } = useFragment(ProfileName_PersonFragmentDoc, profile)
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Person Name: {name}</h1>
    </div>
  )
}
```

```tsx filename="ProfileName.spec.ts" {8}
// ...

describe('<ProfileName />', () => {
  it('renders correctly', () => {
    const profile = { name: 'Adam' }
    render(
      <ProfileName
        profile={profile} // <-- this will throw TypeScript errors
      />
    )

    expect(screen.getByText('Person Name: Adam')).toBeInTheDocument()
  })
})
```

Since the component expects to receive "Masked data", you will need to import the `makeFragmentData()` helper to "build" some masked data, as follow:

```tsx filename="ProfileName.spec.ts" {7}
// ...
import { makeFragmentData } from '../gql'

describe('<ProfileName />', () => {
  it('renders correctly', () => {
    const profile = { name: 'Adam' }
    render(<ProfileName profile={makeFragmentData(profile, ProfileName_PersonFragmentDoc)} />)

    expect(screen.getByText('Person Name: Adam')).toBeInTheDocument()
  })
})
```

### How to disable Fragment Masking

`client-preset`'s Fragment Masking can be disabled as follow:

```ts filename="codegen.ts" {10-12}
import { type CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.graphql',
  documents: ['src/**/*.tsx', '!src/gql/**/*'],
  generates: {
    './src/gql/': {
      preset: 'client',
      presetConfig: {
        fragmentMasking: false
      }
    }
  }
}

export default config
```

## Persisted documents

Persisted documents (often also referred to as persisted queries or persisted documents) is a technique for reducing client to server upstream traffic by sending a unique identifier instead of the full GraphQL document.
It is also commonly used to reduce the size of the client bundle as well as to improve security by preventing the client from sending and executing arbitrary GraphQL operations.

<Callout type="info">
  You can find [a functional example using GraphQL Yoga within our Codegen Examples on
  GitHub](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/tree/master/examples/persisted-documents).
</Callout>

Persisted documents can be enabled by setting the `persistedDocuments` option to `true`:

```ts filename="codegen.ts" {10-12}
import { type CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.graphql',
  documents: ['src/**/*.tsx'],
  generates: {
    './src/gql/': {
      preset: 'client',
      presetConfig: {
        persistedDocuments: true
      }
    }
  }
}
```

By enabling this option GraphQL Code Generator will generate an additional file `persisted-documents.json` within your artifacts location.

<Tree>
  <Folder name="gql" defaultOpen>
    <File name="fragment-masking.ts" />
    <File name="gql.ts" />
    <File name="graphql.ts" />
    <File name="index.ts" />
    <File name="persisted-documents.json" active />
  </Folder>
</Tree>

This file contains a mapping of the document's hash to the document's content.

```json filename="persisted-documents.json"
{
  "b2c3d4e5f6g7h8i9j0a1": "query Hello { hello }",
  "kae4fe7f6g7h8i9ej0ag": "mutation echo($msg: String!) { echo(message: $msg) }"
}
```

In addition the document hash will be added to the generated document node as a `hash` property.

```ts filename="app.ts"
import { graphql } from './gql'

const HelloQuery = graphql(/* GraphQL */ `
  query Hello {
    hello
  }
`)

// logs "b2c3d4e5f6g7h8i9j0a1"
console.log(HelloQuery['__meta__']['hash'])
```

This hash can be used in the network layer of your GraphQL client to send the document hash instead of the document string.

<Callout type="info">
  Note that the server you sent the document hash to must be able to resolve the document hash to the document string.
</Callout>

```ts filename="Fetch example"
import { graphql } from './gql'

const HelloQuery = graphql(/* GraphQL */ `
  query Hello {
    hello
  }
`)

const response = await fetch('http://yoga/graphql', {
  method: 'POST',
  headers: {
    'content-type': 'application/json',
    accept: 'application/json'
  },
  body: JSON.stringify({
    extensions: {
      persistedQuery: {
        version: 1,
        sha256Hash: HelloQuery['__meta__']['hash']
      }
    }
  })
})

console.log(response.status)
console.log(await response.json())
```

## Reducing bundle size: Babel plugin

Large scale projects might want to enable code splitting or tree shaking on the `client-preset` generated files.
This is because instead of using the map which contains all GraphQL operations in the project,
we can use the specific generated document types.

The `client-preset` comes with a Babel and a swc plugin that enables it.

### Babel plugin

To configure the Babel plugin, update (or create) your `.babelrc.js` as follow:

```js filename=".babelrc.js"
const { babelOptimizerPlugin } = require('@graphql-codegen/client-preset')

module.exports = {
  presets: ['react-app'],
  plugins: [[babelOptimizerPlugin, { artifactDirectory: './src/gql', gqlTagName: 'graphql' }]]
}
```

### SWC plugin

<Callout type="warning">
  As of 2023/03/11, SWC's custom plugins is still an experimental feature, that means unexpected breaking changes that
  makes specific nextjs versions or our plugin incompatible are possible, so please file an issue
  [here](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=bug_report.yml&title=@graphql-codegen/client-preset-swc-plugin%20...)
  if you faced any unexpected behavior/errors while using the plugin.

Pro tip: if you faced the following obscure error, or the nextjs `dev` script just instantly terminates the process without any errors,
it means that SWC is not happy with your nextjs version, so try upgrading it to `latest` if possible,
then let us know of your current broken version to try fixing it or documenting its no longer supported.

```sh
thread '<unnamed>' panicked at 'failed to invoke plugin: failed to invoke plugin on 'Some("/app/node_modules/next/dist/client/router.js")'
```

</Callout>

The SWC plugin is not bundled in the `client-preset` package, so you will need to install it separately:

<PackageCmd packages={['-D @graphql-codegen/client-preset-swc-plugin']} />

#### General

To use the SWC plugin without Next.js, update your `.swcrc` to add the following:

```json5 filename=".swcrc"
{
  // ...
  jsc: {
    // ...
    experimental: {
      plugins: [
        ['@graphql-codegen/client-preset-swc-plugin', { artifactDirectory: './src/gql', gqlTagName: 'graphql' }]
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

#### Vite React

To use the SWC plugin with Vite React, update your `vite.config.ts` to add the following:

```ts filename="vite.config.ts" {2,8-10}
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import react from '@vitejs/plugin-react-swc'

// https://vitejs.dev/config/
export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    react({
      plugins: [
        ['@graphql-codegen/client-preset-swc-plugin', { artifactDirectory: './src/gql', gqlTagName: 'graphql' }]
      ]
    })
  ]
})
```

#### Next.js

To use the SWC plugin with Next.js, update your `next.config.js` to add the following:

```js filename="next.config.js"
const nextConfig = {
  // ...
  experimental: {
    swcPlugins: [
      ['@graphql-codegen/client-preset-swc-plugin', { artifactDirectory: './src/gql', gqlTagName: 'graphql' }]
    ]
  }
}
```

Note that you will need to provide the `artifactDirectory` path that should be the same as the one configured in your `codegen.ts`
