website/src/pages/docs/getting-started/installation.mdx, before:

---
title: Quick Start
description: GraphQL Code Generator is a plugin-based tool that helps you get the best out of your GraphQL stack. From back-end to front-end, GraphQL Code Generator automates the generation of typed Queries, Mutations and, Subscriptions for React, Vue, Angular, Next.js, Svelte, whether you are using Apollo Client, URQL or, React Query.
---

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'

# Quick Start

Make sure that you add both the `graphql` and `@graphql-codegen/cli` packages in your project's dependencies:

```sh npm2yarn
npm i graphql
npm i -D typescript @graphql-codegen/cli
```

If you want [watch mode](/docs/getting-started/development-workflow#watch-mode) support you need to add `@parcel/watcher` as well:

```sh npm2yarn
npm i -D @parcel/watcher
```

## Global Installation

<Callout type="warning">
Please avoid installing `graphql`, `@graphql-codegen/cli`, and its plugins as global dependencies. This will cause issues because of duplications of the `graphql` package. Install it only locally in your project.

</Callout>

## Monorepo Project

<Callout type="warning">
If you are using Monorepo setup (Lerna/Yarn Workspaces/anything else), please note that GraphQL Codegen is using `require` to load plugins and files. This might break and fail in case of hoisting.

If you are having issues with loading GraphQL-Codegen plugins, make sure it's installed correctly, at the same level of `node_modules`, and make sure it's accessible and available for the Codegen CLI.

</Callout>

GraphQL Code Generator comes with dozens of plugins, from front-end to back-end, from web apps to mobile apps. If you are not sure which plugins might be helpful for your GraphQL stack, give a try at the [_Initialization Wizard_](#initialization-wizard).

Otherwise, you can start exploring the [plugins](/plugins) and [setting up them manually](#manual-setup).

## Setup

### Initialization Wizard

Once installed, GraphQL Code Generator CLI can help you configure your project based on some popular flows:

```sh
npx graphql-code-generator init
```

```sh npm2yarn
npm install # install the chosen packages
```

Question by question, it will guide you through the whole process of setting up a schema, selecting and installing plugins, picking a destination to where your files are generated, and a lot more.

### Manual Setup

Once GraphQL Code Generator is installed and added to your project's development workflow (scripts), you can start installing plugins and configuring them.

If you are looking for the **best way to leverage GraphQL Code Generator on your stack**, you should read one of our _Guides_.

#### Client

We recommend using [a `client` preset](/plugins/presets/preset-client) that has a recommended configuration for the client applications. You can follow one of the following guides:

- [React](/docs/guides/react-vue)
- [Vue](/docs/guides/react-vue)
- [Angular](/docs/guides/angular)
- [Svelte](/docs/guides/svelte)

#### Server

- [Apollo and Yoga server](/docs/guides/graphql-server-apollo-yoga)
- [Apollo and Yoga server with Server Preset](/docs/guides/graphql-server-apollo-yoga-with-server-preset)
- [GraphQL Modules](/docs/guides/graphql-modules)

If your stack is not listed above, please refer to [our plugins directory](/plugins).

Commit message:

Include @graphql-codegen/client-preset in @graphql-codegen/cli by default (#9601)
* include client preset in @graphql-codegen/cli by default

* add changeset

* Update docs

* chore(dependencies): updated changesets for modified dependencies

* remove dependecy from example

* fix types

---------

Co-authored-by: github-actions[bot] <github-actions[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

website/src/pages/docs/getting-started/installation.mdx, after:

---
title: Quick Start
description: GraphQL Code Generator is a plugin-based tool that helps you get the best out of your GraphQL stack. From back-end to front-end, GraphQL Code Generator automates the generation of typed Queries, Mutations and, Subscriptions for React, Vue, Angular, Next.js, Svelte, whether you are using Apollo Client, URQL or, React Query.
---

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'

# Quick Start

Make sure that you add both the `graphql` and `@graphql-codegen/cli` packages in your project's dependencies:

```sh npm2yarn
npm i graphql
npm i -D typescript @graphql-codegen/cli
```

If you want [watch mode](/docs/getting-started/development-workflow#watch-mode) support you need to add `@parcel/watcher` as well:

```sh npm2yarn
npm i -D @parcel/watcher
```

## Global Installation

<Callout type="warning">
Please avoid installing `graphql`, `@graphql-codegen/cli`, and its plugins as global dependencies. This will cause issues because of duplications of the `graphql` package. Install it only locally in your project.

</Callout>

## Monorepo Project

<Callout type="warning">
If you are using Monorepo setup (Lerna/Yarn Workspaces/anything else), please note that GraphQL Codegen is using `require` to load plugins and files. This might break and fail in case of hoisting.

If you are having issues with loading GraphQL-Codegen plugins, make sure it's installed correctly, at the same level of `node_modules`, and make sure it's accessible and available for the Codegen CLI.

</Callout>

GraphQL Code Generator comes with dozens of plugins, from front-end to back-end, from web apps to mobile apps. If you are not sure which plugins might be helpful for your GraphQL stack, give a try at the [_Initialization Wizard_](#initialization-wizard).

Otherwise, you can start exploring the [plugins](/plugins) and [setting up them manually](#manual-setup).

## Setup

### Initialization Wizard

Once installed, GraphQL Code Generator CLI can help you configure your project based on some popular flows:

```sh
npx graphql-code-generator init
```

```sh npm2yarn
npm install # install the chosen packages
```

Question by question, it will guide you through the whole process of setting up a schema, selecting and installing plugins, picking a destination to where your files are generated, and a lot more.

### Manual Setup

Once GraphQL Code Generator is installed and added to your project's development workflow (scripts), you can start installing plugins and configuring them.

If you are looking for the **best way to leverage GraphQL Code Generator on your stack**, you should read one of our _Guides_.

#### Client

We recommend using [a `client` preset](/plugins/presets/preset-client) that has a recommended configuration for the client applications. It's included in the `@graphql-codegen/cli` package by default. Follow one of the following guides to learn more:

- [React](/docs/guides/react-vue)
- [Vue](/docs/guides/react-vue)
- [Angular](/docs/guides/angular)
- [Svelte](/docs/guides/svelte)

#### Server

- [Apollo and Yoga server](/docs/guides/graphql-server-apollo-yoga)
- [Apollo and Yoga server with Server Preset](/docs/guides/graphql-server-apollo-yoga-with-server-preset)
- [GraphQL Modules](/docs/guides/graphql-modules)

If your stack is not listed above, please refer to [our plugins directory](/plugins).
