website/src/pages/docs/migration/from-0-13.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'

# Migration from 0.13 to 0.18

## What has changed?

In >= 0.14 we changed the way you pass configuration to GraphQL Code Generator.

In the previous versions of the code-generator, the configuration was confusing and passed through 3 ways: CLI flags, config file `gql-gen.json` and environment variables.

It became very confusing and difficult to use, so we decided to merge all existing configurations into a single `.yml` file – `codegen.yml`.

## How to migrate?

To migrate from GraphQL Code Generator v0.13 API to >=0.14, just start by installing the latest version of `graphql-code-generator` from NPM.

Then, run your existing `gql-gen …` command as is. You'll see a warning about your current usage.

The new CLI makes it much easier – it will show you how your `codegen.yml` file should look according to your usage with the old API:

![CLI Migration](/assets/img/v13-migration-cli.gif)

Now, create a file called `codegen.yml` with the content that the codegen suggests for you.

Next, update your NPM scripts to run `graphql-codegen` only, without any cli-flags:

```json filename="package.json"
{
  "name": "my-project",
  "scripts": {
    "generate": "graphql-codegen"
  }
}
```

Now, replace your deprecated `templates` packages with the new `plugins` packages.

For example, if you were using `graphql-codegen-typescript-template`, you should replace it with: `graphql-codegen-typescript`, and `graphql-codegen-typescript-operations`.

<Callout>
  Note sure which new packages you need to use now? [You can take a look
  here](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/tree/master/packages/old-templates). Under each directory
  you'll find a `package.json` pointing to the new packages names.
</Callout>

Commit message:

SEO: add `description` to docs
Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

website/src/pages/docs/migration/from-0-13.mdx, after:

---
description: Migrating from 0.13 to 0.18. What has changed? How to migrate? What are the new features?
---

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'

# Migration from 0.13 to 0.18

## What has changed?

In >= 0.14 we changed the way you pass configuration to GraphQL Code Generator.

In the previous versions of the code-generator, the configuration was confusing and passed through 3 ways: CLI flags, config file `gql-gen.json` and environment variables.

It became very confusing and difficult to use, so we decided to merge all existing configurations into a single `.yml` file – `codegen.yml`.

## How to migrate?

To migrate from GraphQL Code Generator v0.13 API to >=0.14, just start by installing the latest version of `graphql-code-generator` from NPM.

Then, run your existing `gql-gen …` command as is. You'll see a warning about your current usage.

The new CLI makes it much easier – it will show you how your `codegen.yml` file should look according to your usage with the old API:

![CLI Migration](/assets/img/v13-migration-cli.gif)

Now, create a file called `codegen.yml` with the content that the codegen suggests for you.

Next, update your NPM scripts to run `graphql-codegen` only, without any cli-flags:

```json filename="package.json"
{
  "name": "my-project",
  "scripts": {
    "generate": "graphql-codegen"
  }
}
```

Now, replace your deprecated `templates` packages with the new `plugins` packages.

For example, if you were using `graphql-codegen-typescript-template`, you should replace it with: `graphql-codegen-typescript`, and `graphql-codegen-typescript-operations`.

<Callout>
  Note sure which new packages you need to use now? [You can take a look
  here](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/tree/master/packages/old-templates). Under each directory
  you'll find a `package.json` pointing to the new packages names.
</Callout>
