
### addUnderscoreToArgsType (`boolean`)

Adds `_` to generated `Args` types in order to avoid duplicate identifiers.


#### Usage Example: With Custom Values

```yml
  config:
    addUnderscoreToArgsType: true
```


### contextType (`string`)

Use this configuration to set a custom type for your `context`, and it will effect all the resolvers, without the need to override it using generics each time. If you wish to use an external type and import it from another file, you can use `add` plugin and add the required `import` statement, or you can use a `module#type` syntax.


#### Usage Example: Custom Context Type

```yml
plugins
  config:
    contextType: MyContext
```
#### Usage Example: Custom Context Type

```yml
plugins
  config:
    contextType: ./my-types#MyContext
```

### rootValueType (`string`)

Use this configuration to set a custom type for the `rootValue`, and it will effect resolvers of all root types (Query, Mutation and Subscription), without the need to override it using generics each time. If you wish to use an external type and import it from another file, you can use `add` plugin and add the required `import` statement, or you can use both `module#type` or `module#namespace#type` syntax.


#### Usage Example: Custom RootValue Type

```yml
plugins
  config:
    rootValueType: MyRootValue
```
#### Usage Example: Custom RootValue Type

```yml
plugins
  config:
    rootValueType: ./my-types#MyRootValue
```

### mappers (`Object`)

Replaces a GraphQL type usage with a custom type, allowing you to return custom object from your resolvers. You can use both `module#type` and `module#namespace#type` syntax.


#### Usage Example: Custom Context Type

```yml
plugins
  config:
    mappers:
      User: ./my-models#UserDbObject
      Book: ./my-models#Collections#Book
```

### defaultMapper (`string`)

Allow you to set the default mapper when it's not being override by `mappers` or generics. You can specify a type name, or specify a string in `module#type` or `module#namespace#type` format. The defualt value of mappers it the TypeScript type generated by `typescript` package.


#### Usage Example: Replace with any

```yml
plugins
  config:
    defaultMapper: any
```

#### Usage Example: Custom Base Object

```yml
plugins
  config:
    defaultMapper: ./my-file#BaseObject
```

#### Usage Example: Wrap default types with Partial
You can also specify a custom wrapper for the original type, without overring the original generated types, use "T" to specify the identifier. (for flow, use `$Shape<{T}>`)

```yml
plugins
  config:
    defaultMapper: Partial<{T}>
```

### avoidOptionals (`boolean`, default value: `false`)

This will cause the generator to avoid using TypeScript optionals (`?`), so all field resolvers must be implemented in order to avoid compilation errors.


#### Usage Example

```yml
generates:
path/to/file.ts:
 plugins:
   - typescript
   - typescript-resolvers
 config:
   avoidOptionals: true
```

### showUnusedMappers (`boolean`, default value: `true`)

Warns about unused mappers.


#### Usage Example

```yml
generates:
path/to/file.ts:
 plugins:
   - typescript
   - typescript-resolvers
 config:
   showUnusedMappers: true
```

### enumValues (`EnumValuesMap`)

Overrides the default value of enum values declared in your GraphQL schema, supported in this plugin because of the need for integeration with `typescript` package. See documentation under `typescript` plugin for more information and examples.




### resolverTypeWrapperSignature (`string`, default value: `Promise | T`)

Allow you to override `resolverTypeWrapper` definition.




### federation (`boolean`, default value: `false`)

Supports Apollo Federation


