website/src/pages/docs/guides/api-testing.mdx, before:

import { Callout, PackageCmd } from '@theguild/components'

# Guide: API Testing

GraphQL Code Generator can generate typed results for your GraphQL operations.

<br />

This tutorial uses GraphQL Yoga, but the practices are applicable to testing any GraphQL server.

<Callout type="info">

Refer to [GraphQL Codegen - Yoga example](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/tree/master/examples/yoga-tests) for a fully running example using [GraphQL Yoga](https://the-guild.dev/graphql/yoga-server).

</Callout>

## Installation

Install the following dependencies:

<PackageCmd packages={['graphql-yoga']} />

Install the following development dependencies:

<PackageCmd
  packages={[
    '-D typescript ts-node @graphql-codegen/cli @graphql-codegen/client-preset jest @babel/core @babel/preset-env @babel/preset-typescript @graphql-codegen/client-preset babel-jest @graphql-typed-document-node/core'
  ]}
/>

## Setup

First, create the following files with the boilerplate project set up.

```json filename="./tsconfig.json"
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "target": "ES2018",
    "module": "Node16",
    "outDir": "dist"
  },
  "include": ["src/**/*"]
}
```

```js filename="./babel.config.js"
module.exports = {
  presets: [
    ['@babel/preset-env', { targets: { node: process.versions.node.split('.')[0] } }],
    '@babel/preset-typescript'
  ]
}
```

```js filename="./jest.config.js"
module.exports = {
  transform: { '^.+\\.ts': 'babel-jest' }
}
```

Next, create the `codegen.ts` file.

```ts filename="./codegen.ts"
// eslint-disable-next-line import/no-extraneous-dependencies
import { type CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: './src/yoga.ts',
  documents: ['src/**/*.ts'],
  generates: {
    './src/gql/': {
      preset: 'client-preset'
    }
  }
}

export default config
```

Up next, create a simple GraphQL Yoga server with a `Query` and `Mutation` root type.

```ts filename="./src/yoga.ts"
import { createSchema, createYoga } from 'graphql-yoga'

const schema = createSchema({
  typeDefs: /* GraphQL */ `
    type Query {
      hello: String!
    }

    type Mutation {
      echo(message: String!): String!
    }
  `,
  resolvers: {
    Query: {
      hello: () => 'Hello world!'
    },
    Mutation: {
      echo: (_, args) => args.message
    }
  }
})

export const yoga = createYoga({
  schema
})
```

## Writing tests

Now that we have a GraphQL Yoga server, we can write some tests.

```ts filename="./src/yoga.spec.ts"
import type { TypedDocumentNode } from '@graphql-typed-document-node/core'
import { type ExecutionResult, print } from 'graphql'
import { graphql } from './gql'
import { yoga } from './yoga'

function executeOperation<TResult, TVariables>(
  operation: TypedDocumentNode<TResult, TVariables>,
  ...[variables]: TVariables extends Record<string, never> ? [] : [TVariables]
): Promise<ExecutionResult<TResult>> {
  return Promise.resolve(
    yoga.fetch('http://yoga/graphql', {
      method: 'POST',
      headers: {
        'Content-Type': 'application/json',
        Accept: 'application/json'
      },
      body: JSON.stringify({
        query: print(operation),
        variables: variables ?? undefined
      })
    })
  ).then(response => response.json())
}

describe('Yoga Tests', () => {
  it('execute query operation', async () => {
    const HelloQuery = graphql(/* GraphQL */ `
      query HelloQuery {
        hello
      }
    `)

    const result = await executeOperation(HelloQuery)

    expect(result.data?.hello).toEqual('Hello world!')
  })

  it('execute mutation operation', async () => {
    const EchoMutation = graphql(/* GraphQL */ `
      mutation EchoMutation($message: String!) {
        echo(message: $message)
      }
    `)

    const result = await executeOperation(EchoMutation, {
      message: 'Ohayoo!'
    })

    expect(result.data?.echo).toEqual('Ohayoo!')
  })

  it('execute mutation operation (variant)', async () => {
    const EchoMutation = graphql(/* GraphQL */ `
      mutation EchoMutation($message: String!) {
        echo(message: $message)
      }
    `)

    const result = await executeOperation(EchoMutation, {
      message: 'Konbanwa'
    })

    expect(result.data?.echo).toEqual('Konbanwa')
  })
})
```

We can then generate the types for the referenced GraphQL operation using the GraphQL Code Generator CLI.

```bash
npx graphql-codegen
```

As the command was run, the TypeScript errors within the test file should have disappeared.

For convenience and writing tests it is recommended to run GraphQL Code Generator in watch mode.

```bash
npx graphql-codegen --watch
```

You can then run the tests using `npx jest` (or `npx jest --watch`) for watch mode.

```ts filename="Typed Execution Result helper function"
import type { TypedDocumentNode } from '@graphql-typed-document-node/core'
import { type ExecutionResult, print } from 'graphql'
import { graphql } from './gql'

function executeOperation<TResult, TVariables>(
  operation: TypedDocumentNode<TResult, TVariables>,
  ...[variables]: TVariables extends Record<string, never> ? [] : [TVariables]
): Promise<ExecutionResult<TResult>> {
  return Promise.resolve(
    yoga.fetch('http://yoga/graphql', {
      method: 'POST',
      headers: {
        'Content-Type': 'application/json',
        Accept: 'application/json'
      },
      body: JSON.stringify({
        query: print(operation),
        variables: variables ?? undefined
      })
    })
  ).then(response => response.json())
}
```

The `executeOperation` function is a helper function that executes a GraphQL operation and returns a typed result.
It can be used in any context, whether it is tests or server-to-server communication.

## Conclusion

GraphQL Code Generator can enhance the developer experience by generating GraphQL operation types for unit and integration tests .

Commit message:

SEO: add `description` to docs (#9168)
* SEO: add `description` to docs

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

* prettier

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

website/src/pages/docs/guides/api-testing.mdx, after:

---
description: GraphQL Code Generator can generate typed results for your GraphQL operations. This tutorial uses GraphQL Yoga, but the practices are applicable to testing any GraphQL server.
---

import { Callout, PackageCmd } from '@theguild/components'

# Guide: API Testing

GraphQL Code Generator can generate typed results for your GraphQL operations.

<br />

This tutorial uses GraphQL Yoga, but the practices are applicable to testing any GraphQL server.

<Callout type="info">

Refer to [GraphQL Codegen - Yoga example](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/tree/master/examples/yoga-tests) for a fully running example using [GraphQL Yoga](https://the-guild.dev/graphql/yoga-server).

</Callout>

## Installation

Install the following dependencies:

<PackageCmd packages={['graphql-yoga']} />

Install the following development dependencies:

<PackageCmd
  packages={[
    '-D typescript ts-node @graphql-codegen/cli @graphql-codegen/client-preset jest @babel/core @babel/preset-env @babel/preset-typescript @graphql-codegen/client-preset babel-jest @graphql-typed-document-node/core'
  ]}
/>

## Setup

First, create the following files with the boilerplate project set up.

```json filename="./tsconfig.json"
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "target": "ES2018",
    "module": "Node16",
    "outDir": "dist"
  },
  "include": ["src/**/*"]
}
```

```js filename="./babel.config.js"
module.exports = {
  presets: [
    ['@babel/preset-env', { targets: { node: process.versions.node.split('.')[0] } }],
    '@babel/preset-typescript'
  ]
}
```

```js filename="./jest.config.js"
module.exports = {
  transform: { '^.+\\.ts': 'babel-jest' }
}
```

Next, create the `codegen.ts` file.

```ts filename="./codegen.ts"
// eslint-disable-next-line import/no-extraneous-dependencies
import { type CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: './src/yoga.ts',
  documents: ['src/**/*.ts'],
  generates: {
    './src/gql/': {
      preset: 'client-preset'
    }
  }
}

export default config
```

Up next, create a simple GraphQL Yoga server with a `Query` and `Mutation` root type.

```ts filename="./src/yoga.ts"
import { createSchema, createYoga } from 'graphql-yoga'

const schema = createSchema({
  typeDefs: /* GraphQL */ `
    type Query {
      hello: String!
    }

    type Mutation {
      echo(message: String!): String!
    }
  `,
  resolvers: {
    Query: {
      hello: () => 'Hello world!'
    },
    Mutation: {
      echo: (_, args) => args.message
    }
  }
})

export const yoga = createYoga({
  schema
})
```

## Writing tests

Now that we have a GraphQL Yoga server, we can write some tests.

```ts filename="./src/yoga.spec.ts"
import type { TypedDocumentNode } from '@graphql-typed-document-node/core'
import { type ExecutionResult, print } from 'graphql'
import { graphql } from './gql'
import { yoga } from './yoga'

function executeOperation<TResult, TVariables>(
  operation: TypedDocumentNode<TResult, TVariables>,
  ...[variables]: TVariables extends Record<string, never> ? [] : [TVariables]
): Promise<ExecutionResult<TResult>> {
  return Promise.resolve(
    yoga.fetch('http://yoga/graphql', {
      method: 'POST',
      headers: {
        'Content-Type': 'application/json',
        Accept: 'application/json'
      },
      body: JSON.stringify({
        query: print(operation),
        variables: variables ?? undefined
      })
    })
  ).then(response => response.json())
}

describe('Yoga Tests', () => {
  it('execute query operation', async () => {
    const HelloQuery = graphql(/* GraphQL */ `
      query HelloQuery {
        hello
      }
    `)

    const result = await executeOperation(HelloQuery)

    expect(result.data?.hello).toEqual('Hello world!')
  })

  it('execute mutation operation', async () => {
    const EchoMutation = graphql(/* GraphQL */ `
      mutation EchoMutation($message: String!) {
        echo(message: $message)
      }
    `)

    const result = await executeOperation(EchoMutation, {
      message: 'Ohayoo!'
    })

    expect(result.data?.echo).toEqual('Ohayoo!')
  })

  it('execute mutation operation (variant)', async () => {
    const EchoMutation = graphql(/* GraphQL */ `
      mutation EchoMutation($message: String!) {
        echo(message: $message)
      }
    `)

    const result = await executeOperation(EchoMutation, {
      message: 'Konbanwa'
    })

    expect(result.data?.echo).toEqual('Konbanwa')
  })
})
```

We can then generate the types for the referenced GraphQL operation using the GraphQL Code Generator CLI.

```bash
npx graphql-codegen
```

As the command was run, the TypeScript errors within the test file should have disappeared.

For convenience and writing tests it is recommended to run GraphQL Code Generator in watch mode.

```bash
npx graphql-codegen --watch
```

You can then run the tests using `npx jest` (or `npx jest --watch`) for watch mode.

```ts filename="Typed Execution Result helper function"
import type { TypedDocumentNode } from '@graphql-typed-document-node/core'
import { type ExecutionResult, print } from 'graphql'
import { graphql } from './gql'

function executeOperation<TResult, TVariables>(
  operation: TypedDocumentNode<TResult, TVariables>,
  ...[variables]: TVariables extends Record<string, never> ? [] : [TVariables]
): Promise<ExecutionResult<TResult>> {
  return Promise.resolve(
    yoga.fetch('http://yoga/graphql', {
      method: 'POST',
      headers: {
        'Content-Type': 'application/json',
        Accept: 'application/json'
      },
      body: JSON.stringify({
        query: print(operation),
        variables: variables ?? undefined
      })
    })
  ).then(response => response.json())
}
```

The `executeOperation` function is a helper function that executes a GraphQL operation and returns a typed result.
It can be used in any context, whether it is tests or server-to-server communication.

## Conclusion

GraphQL Code Generator can enhance the developer experience by generating GraphQL operation types for unit and integration tests .
