website/src/pages/docs/guides/further-reading.mdx, before:

# Further Reading

Our guides helps you getting started with the most popular frameworks, GraphQL clients and servers.

However, many topics such as Prisma integration or Fragment-based component architecture, deserve to be covered.

You will find below a curated list of article and documentation links that will help you to get the best of GraphQL Code Generator.

## For front-end applications

### Leverage GraphQL Fragments

As stated in our [React and Vue guide](/docs/guides/react-vue), we recommend to leverage Fragments to properly declare your UI-components data dependencies.

To get more information on this topic, we highly recommend to read our article covering this topic in depth: ["Unleash the power of Fragments with GraphQL Codegen"](https://www.the-guild.dev/blog/unleash-the-power-of-fragments-with-graphql-codegen).

### Angular projects

- [Using Apollo GraphQL with Angular in an Nx Workspace](https://blog.nrwl.io/using-apollo-graphql-with-angular-in-an-nx-workspace-9ad0155c1914?gi=603641d4b51a) by [Philip Fulcher](https://medium.com/@philipjfulcher?source=post_page-----9ad0155c1914-----------------------------------)

<br />

<br />

## For GraphQL servers

- How to get types to work with Prisma: [the-guild.dev/blog/graphql-code-generator-and-prisma](https://www.the-guild.dev/blog/graphql-code-generator-and-prisma)
- How to properly configure Models types for your resolvers: [the-guild.dev/blog/better-type-safety-for-resolvers-with-graphql-codegen#use-your-model-types](https://www.the-guild.dev/blog/better-type-safety-for-resolvers-with-graphql-codegen#use-your-model-types)
- The many ways to implement error handling in GraphQL and its impact on types generation: [the-guild.dev/blog/graphql-error-handling-with-fp](https://the-guild.dev/blog/graphql-error-handling-with-fp)
- [Working with GraphQL Code Generator and GraphCMS](https://graphcms.com/blog/working-with-graphql-code-generator-and-graphcms) by Jamie Barton
- [GraphQL Code Generator for WPGraphQL](https://developers.wpengine.com/blog/graphql-code-generator-for-wpgraphql) by Kellen Mace
- [Gatsby and GraphQL Code Generator - A Perfect Match](https://talohana.com/blog/gatsby-graphql-code-generator) by [Tal Ohana](https://talohana.com)

<br />

<br />

## Stay up-to-date with GraphQL

- [Subscribe to The Guild monthly newsletter](https://www.getrevue.co/profile/TheGuild) to ge the last best practices and all of our libraries updates
- [graphql.wtf](https://graphql.wtf) by [Jamie Barton](https://twitter.com/notrab) is a set of video tutorials around GraphQL
- [GraphQL Weekly](https://www.graphqlweekly.com/) newsletter

Commit message:

SEO: add `description` to docs (#9168)
* SEO: add `description` to docs

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

* prettier

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

website/src/pages/docs/guides/further-reading.mdx, after:

---
description: GraphQL Code Generator is a tool for generating code from your GraphQL schema and operations. It's a great way to get type-safety and auto-completion in your code.
---

# Further Reading

Our guides helps you getting started with the most popular frameworks, GraphQL clients and servers.

However, many topics such as Prisma integration or Fragment-based component architecture, deserve to be covered.

You will find below a curated list of article and documentation links that will help you to get the best of GraphQL Code Generator.

## For front-end applications

### Leverage GraphQL Fragments

As stated in our [React and Vue guide](/docs/guides/react-vue), we recommend to leverage Fragments to properly declare your UI-components data dependencies.

To get more information on this topic, we highly recommend to read our article covering this topic in depth: ["Unleash the power of Fragments with GraphQL Codegen"](https://www.the-guild.dev/blog/unleash-the-power-of-fragments-with-graphql-codegen).

### Angular projects

- [Using Apollo GraphQL with Angular in an Nx Workspace](https://blog.nrwl.io/using-apollo-graphql-with-angular-in-an-nx-workspace-9ad0155c1914?gi=603641d4b51a) by [Philip Fulcher](https://medium.com/@philipjfulcher?source=post_page-----9ad0155c1914-----------------------------------)

<br />

<br />

## For GraphQL servers

- How to get types to work with Prisma: [the-guild.dev/blog/graphql-code-generator-and-prisma](https://www.the-guild.dev/blog/graphql-code-generator-and-prisma)
- How to properly configure Models types for your resolvers: [the-guild.dev/blog/better-type-safety-for-resolvers-with-graphql-codegen#use-your-model-types](https://www.the-guild.dev/blog/better-type-safety-for-resolvers-with-graphql-codegen#use-your-model-types)
- The many ways to implement error handling in GraphQL and its impact on types generation: [the-guild.dev/blog/graphql-error-handling-with-fp](https://the-guild.dev/blog/graphql-error-handling-with-fp)
- [Working with GraphQL Code Generator and GraphCMS](https://graphcms.com/blog/working-with-graphql-code-generator-and-graphcms) by Jamie Barton
- [GraphQL Code Generator for WPGraphQL](https://developers.wpengine.com/blog/graphql-code-generator-for-wpgraphql) by Kellen Mace
- [Gatsby and GraphQL Code Generator - A Perfect Match](https://talohana.com/blog/gatsby-graphql-code-generator) by [Tal Ohana](https://talohana.com)

<br />

<br />

## Stay up-to-date with GraphQL

- [Subscribe to The Guild monthly newsletter](https://www.getrevue.co/profile/TheGuild) to ge the last best practices and all of our libraries updates
- [graphql.wtf](https://graphql.wtf) by [Jamie Barton](https://twitter.com/notrab) is a set of video tutorials around GraphQL
- [GraphQL Weekly](https://www.graphqlweekly.com/) newsletter
