website/src/pages/docs/config-reference/config-field.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'

# `config` field

The `config` field is used to pass configuration to Plugins.

`config` can be specified at many levels of the configuration:

### Root Level

If you specify it in your root level, the options will be passed to every plugin for each output file:

```ts {5}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.graphql',
  config: { configKey: 'configValue' },
  generates: { 'output.ts': ['plugin1', 'plugin2'] }
}
export default config
```

### Output Level

If you specify it at the output file level, every plugin for specific output will get the config value:

```ts {7-9}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.graphql',
  generates: {
    'output.ts': {
      config: {
        configKey: 'configValue'
      },
      plugins: ['plugin1', 'plugin2']
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

<Callout>Output level configuration overrides root-level configuration.</Callout>

### Plugin Level

If you specify it at the plugin level, only that plugin will get the config value:

```ts {8,11}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.graphql',
  generates: {
    'output.ts': [
      {
        plugin1: { configKey: 'configValue' }
      },
      {
        plugin2: { configKey: 'otherValue' }
      }
    ]
  }
}
export default config
```

<Callout>Plugin level configuration overrides output-level and root-level configuration.</Callout>

Commit message:

SEO: add `description` to docs (#9168)
* SEO: add `description` to docs

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

* prettier

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

website/src/pages/docs/config-reference/config-field.mdx, after:

---
description: Learn how to configure GraphQL Code Generator to fit your needs. The `config` field is used to pass configuration to Plugins.
---

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'

# `config` field

The `config` field is used to pass configuration to Plugins.

`config` can be specified at many levels of the configuration:

### Root Level

If you specify it in your root level, the options will be passed to every plugin for each output file:

```ts {5}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.graphql',
  config: { configKey: 'configValue' },
  generates: { 'output.ts': ['plugin1', 'plugin2'] }
}
export default config
```

### Output Level

If you specify it at the output file level, every plugin for specific output will get the config value:

```ts {7-9}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.graphql',
  generates: {
    'output.ts': {
      config: {
        configKey: 'configValue'
      },
      plugins: ['plugin1', 'plugin2']
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

<Callout>Output level configuration overrides root-level configuration.</Callout>

### Plugin Level

If you specify it at the plugin level, only that plugin will get the config value:

```ts {8,11}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.graphql',
  generates: {
    'output.ts': [
      {
        plugin1: { configKey: 'configValue' }
      },
      {
        plugin2: { configKey: 'otherValue' }
      }
    ]
  }
}
export default config
```

<Callout>Plugin level configuration overrides output-level and root-level configuration.</Callout>
