website/src/pages/docs/config-reference/multiproject-config.mdx, before:

# Multi Project

In some cases, it's useful to have multiple projects in the same config file.

For example, in a monorepo, the VSCode GraphQL plugin will automatically pick up the right config for the right folder.

## Configuration file format

Here's an example for a possible config file:

```js filename="graphql.config.js"
/** @type {import('graphql-config').IGraphQLConfig } */
module.exports = {
  projects: {
    prj1: {
      schema: ['prj1/**/*.graphql'],
      documents: ['prj1/**/*.gql'],
      extensions: {
        codegen: {
          generates: {
            'graphqlTypes.ts': {
              plugins: ['typescript', 'typed-document-node']
            }
          }
        }
      }
    },
    prj2: {
      schema: ['prj2/**/*.graphql'],
      documents: ['prj2/**/*.gql'],
      extensions: {
        codegen: {
          generates: {
            'graphqlTypes.ts': {
              plugins: ['typescript', 'typed-document-node']
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Command to generate files

With the previous config, you can generate files with the following command:

```sh
graphql-codegen --config graphql.config.js --project prj1
```

Commit message:

SEO: add `description` to docs (#9168)
* SEO: add `description` to docs

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

* prettier

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

website/src/pages/docs/config-reference/multiproject-config.mdx, after:

---
description: Learn how to use GraphQL Code Generator with multiple projects in the same config file.
---

# Multi Project

In some cases, it's useful to have multiple projects in the same config file.

For example, in a monorepo, the VSCode GraphQL plugin will automatically pick up the right config for the right folder.

## Configuration file format

Here's an example for a possible config file:

```js filename="graphql.config.js"
/** @type {import('graphql-config').IGraphQLConfig } */
module.exports = {
  projects: {
    prj1: {
      schema: ['prj1/**/*.graphql'],
      documents: ['prj1/**/*.gql'],
      extensions: {
        codegen: {
          generates: {
            'graphqlTypes.ts': {
              plugins: ['typescript', 'typed-document-node']
            }
          }
        }
      }
    },
    prj2: {
      schema: ['prj2/**/*.graphql'],
      documents: ['prj2/**/*.gql'],
      extensions: {
        codegen: {
          generates: {
            'graphqlTypes.ts': {
              plugins: ['typescript', 'typed-document-node']
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Command to generate files

With the previous config, you can generate files with the following command:

```sh
graphql-codegen --config graphql.config.js --project prj1
```
