website/src/pages/docs/config-reference/require-field.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'

# `require` field

The `require` field allows you to load any external files without the need to transpile them before.

## How to use it?

To use it, install the extensions you wish to use from npm and then specify a list of `require` extensions in your root config:

```ts {5}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  // ...
  require: ['extension1', 'extension2']
  // ...
}
export default config
```

Adding `require` extension is useful if you are loading your `GraphQLSchema` or GraphQL documents from a [code file](./schema-field#javascript-export), if you wish to use [custom plugins](/docs/custom-codegen/write-your-plugin), or use a [custom schema loader](./schema-field#custom-schema-loader) or a [custom document loader](./documents-field#custom-document-loader).

## TypeScript Support

If you wish to use TypeScript, just add [`ts-node`](https://github.com/TypeStrong/ts-node) from npm and specify its register export in your config file:

```ts {5}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  // ...
  require: ['ts-node/register']
  // ...
}
export default config
```

## Specifying from the command line

You can also specify `require.extensions` as a CLI flag using `-r`.

Specifying the `-r` CLI flag will load your `require.extension` _before_ loading the `.yml` file.

This way, you can load environment variables using `dotenv` and use those environment variables in your `.yml` config file.

### `dotenv` Integration

If you wish to use [dotenv](https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv) to load environment variables, you can install `dotenv` from npm and then use the `require` CLI flag: `-r dotenv/config`.

It will make sure to load your `.env` file before executing the codegen and loading your `.yml` file, so environment variables used in your config file will be replaced with the correct value.

To get started with this integration, make sure you have `.env` file with variables, `dotenv` installed, and codegen is being executed like that:

```sh
graphql-codegen --require dotenv/config --config codegen.ts
```

#### Customize loaded env file

If you wish to load a file different than `.env` file, please follow [`dotenv` library documentation](https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv#dotenv).

It allows you to specify a custom file path using 2 methods.

You can either set an environment variable called `DOTENV_CONFIG_PATH` with the path:

```sh
DOTENV_CONFIG_PATH="./my.env" graphql-codegen --require dotenv/config --config codegen.ts
```

<Callout>You can use `cross-env` library if you are using Windows.</Callout>

Or, you can specify it using codegen CLI, like that:

```sh
graphql-codegen --require dotenv/config --config codegen.ts dotenv_config_path=my.env
```

#### `dotenv` Example

```text filename=".env"
SCHEMAURL=https://example.com/graphql
APIKEY=ABC123
```

```ts
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: {
    [process.env.SCHEMAURL]: {
      headers: {
        apikey: process.env.APIKEY
      }
    }
  }
  // ...
}

export default config
```

<Callout>
  The env values might be saved in the generated code output. Be careful not to commit code with sensitive keys.
</Callout>

Commit message:

SEO: add `description` to docs
Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

website/src/pages/docs/config-reference/require-field.mdx, after:

---
description: Learn how to use the require field to load external files without transpiling them.
---

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'

# `require` field

The `require` field allows you to load any external files without the need to transpile them before.

## How to use it?

To use it, install the extensions you wish to use from npm and then specify a list of `require` extensions in your root config:

```ts {5}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  // ...
  require: ['extension1', 'extension2']
  // ...
}
export default config
```

Adding `require` extension is useful if you are loading your `GraphQLSchema` or GraphQL documents from a [code file](./schema-field#javascript-export), if you wish to use [custom plugins](/docs/custom-codegen/write-your-plugin), or use a [custom schema loader](./schema-field#custom-schema-loader) or a [custom document loader](./documents-field#custom-document-loader).

## TypeScript Support

If you wish to use TypeScript, just add [`ts-node`](https://github.com/TypeStrong/ts-node) from npm and specify its register export in your config file:

```ts {5}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  // ...
  require: ['ts-node/register']
  // ...
}
export default config
```

## Specifying from the command line

You can also specify `require.extensions` as a CLI flag using `-r`.

Specifying the `-r` CLI flag will load your `require.extension` _before_ loading the `.yml` file.

This way, you can load environment variables using `dotenv` and use those environment variables in your `.yml` config file.

### `dotenv` Integration

If you wish to use [dotenv](https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv) to load environment variables, you can install `dotenv` from npm and then use the `require` CLI flag: `-r dotenv/config`.

It will make sure to load your `.env` file before executing the codegen and loading your `.yml` file, so environment variables used in your config file will be replaced with the correct value.

To get started with this integration, make sure you have `.env` file with variables, `dotenv` installed, and codegen is being executed like that:

```sh
graphql-codegen --require dotenv/config --config codegen.ts
```

#### Customize loaded env file

If you wish to load a file different than `.env` file, please follow [`dotenv` library documentation](https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv#dotenv).

It allows you to specify a custom file path using 2 methods.

You can either set an environment variable called `DOTENV_CONFIG_PATH` with the path:

```sh
DOTENV_CONFIG_PATH="./my.env" graphql-codegen --require dotenv/config --config codegen.ts
```

<Callout>You can use `cross-env` library if you are using Windows.</Callout>

Or, you can specify it using codegen CLI, like that:

```sh
graphql-codegen --require dotenv/config --config codegen.ts dotenv_config_path=my.env
```

#### `dotenv` Example

```text filename=".env"
SCHEMAURL=https://example.com/graphql
APIKEY=ABC123
```

```ts
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: {
    [process.env.SCHEMAURL]: {
      headers: {
        apikey: process.env.APIKEY
      }
    }
  }
  // ...
}

export default config
```

<Callout>
  The env values might be saved in the generated code output. Be careful not to commit code with sensitive keys.
</Callout>
