website/src/pages/docs/config-reference/schema-field.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'

# `schema` field

The `schema` field should point to your `GraphQLSchema` - there are multiple ways you can specify it and load your `GraphQLSchema`.

`schema` can either be a `string` pointing to your schema or a `string[]` pointing to multiple schemas that will be merged.

## How to use it?

### Root-level

You can specify the `schema` field in your root level config, as follows:

```ts {4}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'http://localhost:3000/graphql',
  generates: {
    './src/types.ts': {
      plugins: ['typescript']
    }
  }
};
export default config;

```

### Output-file level

Or, you can specify it per-output file level. This way you can

```ts {6,10}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  generates: {
    './src/types1.ts': {
      schema: 'http://server1.com/graphql',
      plugins: ['typescript']
    },
    './src/types2.ts': {
      schema: 'http://server2.com/graphql',
      plugins: ['typescript']
    }
  },
};
export default config;

```

### Multiple schemas and client-side schema

You can also specify `schema` on both levels: root and output-file, and then GraphQL Code Generator will merge both schemas into one:

```ts {4,7}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'http://localhost:3000/graphql',
  generates: {
    './src/types.ts': {
      schema: './schema.graphql',
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-operations']
    }
  }
};
export default config;

```

<Callout>
  It's also helpful if you have a remote schema from a server and a client-side schema available in your client-side.
</Callout>

## Available formats

The following can be specified as a single value or an array with mixed values.

### URL

You can specify a URL to load your `GraphQLSchema` from:

```ts {4}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'http://localhost:3000/graphql',
  // ...
};
export default config;
```

#### Supported Configuration

##### `headers`

You can also specify custom HTTP headers to be sent with the request:

```ts {7-9}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: [
    {
      'http://localhost:3000/graphql': {
        headers: {
          Authorization: 'YOUR-TOKEN-HERE',
        },
      },
    },
  ],
};
export default config;

```

##### `customFetch`

You can specify a custom fetch function for the HTTP request, using the module name you wish to use:



```ts {7}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: [
    {
      'http://localhost:3000/graphql': {
        customFetch: 'my-custom-fetch',
      }
    }
  ]
};
export default config;
```


##### `method`

You can specify an HTTP method for the introspection query (the default value is `POST`).

```ts {7}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: [
    {
      'http://localhost:3000/graphql': {
        method: 'GET',
      }
    }
  ]
};
export default config;

```

### JSON

You can point to a local `.json` file that contains [GraphQL Introspection](https://graphql.org/learn/introspection) JSON.


```ts {4}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.json',
  // ...
};
export default config;
```


### Local `.graphql` files

You can point to a single `.graphql` file that contains the AST string of your schema:

```ts {4}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.graphql',
  // ...
};
export default config;
```

Or, you can point to multiple files using a glob expression (codegen will merge the schema files for you):



```ts {4}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'src/**/*.graphql',
  // ...
};
export default config;
```

You can also specify multiple patterns:


```ts {4}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: ['src/dir1/**/*.graphql', 'src/dir2/**/*.graphql'],
  // ...
};
export default config;
```


And, you can specify files to exclude/ignore, using the `!` sign:

```ts {4}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: ['src/**/*.graphql', '!*.generated.graphql'],
  // ...
};
export default config;
```

<Callout>All provided glob expressions are evaluated together. The usage is similar to `.gitignore`.</Callout>

#### Supported Configuration

##### `skipGraphQLImport`

By default, codegen skips `graphql-import` to load all files using glob expressions.

If you are using `graphql-import` syntax in your schema definitions, you can tell codegen to use those import statements:


```ts {7}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: [
    {
      './src/**/*.ts': {
        skipGraphQLImport: true
      },
    },
  ],
};
export default config;
```


##### `commentDescriptions`

When enabled, converts all deprecated forms of GraphQL comments (marked with `#`) into a GraphQL description (marked with `"`) during the parsing phase.


```ts {7}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: [
    {
      './src/**/*.ts': {
        commentDescriptions: true
      },
    },
  ],
};
export default config;
```



##### `assumeValidSDL`

Set to true to assume the SDL is valid, and skip any SDL syntax validations.


```ts {7}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: [
    {
      './src/**/*.ts': {
        assumeValidSDL: true
      },
    },
  ],
};
export default config;
```

### Code Files

You can use code files, and the codegen will try to extract the GraphQL schema from it, based on `gql` tag:

```ts {4}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: './src/**/*.ts'
};
export default config;
```

The codegen will try to load the file as an AST and look for exact GraphQL strings, but if it can't find those, it will try to `require` the file and looks for operations in the default export.

#### Supported Configuration

##### `noRequire`

You can disable the `require` if it causes errors for you (for example, because of a different module system or missing dependency):

```ts {7}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: [
    {
      './src/**/*.ts': {
        noRequire: true,
      },
    },
  ],
};
export default config;
```

##### `noPluck`

You can disable the AST lookup phase and tell codegen to skip and directly try to `require` each file:


```ts {7}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: [
    {
      './src/**/*.ts': {
        noPluck: true,
      },
    },
  ],
};
export default config;
```

##### `assumeValid`

Set this to `true` to tell codegen to skip AST validation.

```ts {7}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: [
    {
      './src/**/*.ts': {
        assumeValid: true,
      },
    },
  ],
};
export default config;
```

### JavaScript export

You can also specify a code file that exports your `GraphQLSchema` object as export `schema` or as default export.



```ts {4}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.js'
};
export default config;
```
```js
const { buildSchema } = require('graphql')

module.exports = buildSchema(/* GraphQL */ `
  type MyType {
    foo: String!
  }

  type Query {
    myType: MyType!
  }
`)
```

<Callout>
  You can also import from TypeScript files, but don't forget to specify [require field](./require-field).
</Callout>

### String

You can specify your schema directly as an AST string in your config file. It's handy for testing.


```ts {4}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'type MyType { foo: String } type Query { myType: MyType }'
};
export default config;
```


### GitHub

You can load your schema file from a remote GitHub file, using the following syntax:

```ts {4}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'github:user/repo#branchName:path/to/file.graphql'
};
export default config;
```


<Callout>You can load from a JSON file, `.graphql` file, or from a code file containing `gql` tag syntax.</Callout>

### Git

You can load your schema file from a Git repository using the following syntax:

```ts {4}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'git:branch:path/to/file.graphql'
};
export default config;
```

<Callout>You can load from a JSON file, `.graphql` file, or from a code file containing `gql` tag syntax.</Callout>

### Apollo Engine

You can load your schema from Apollo Engine with the following syntax:

```ts
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: [
    {
      'apollo-engine': {
        engine: {
          apiKey: 'APOLLO_ENGINE_KEY_ID',
        },
        graph: 'GRAPH_ID',
        variant: 'current',
      }
    }
  ]
};
export default config;

```

## Custom Schema Loader

If your schema has a different or complicated way of loading, you can point to a single code file that works for you.

```ts {7,12}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: [
    {
      'http://localhost:3000/graphql': {
        loader: './my-url-loader.js',
      }
    },
    {
      'schema.graphql': {
        loader: './my-file-loader.js',
      }
    }
  ],
};
export default config;

```

Your custom loader should export a default function that returns `GraphQLSchema` object, or an identifier called `schema`. For example:

```js
const { readFileSync } = require('node:fs')
const { buildSchema } = require('graphql')

module.exports = (schemaString, config) => {
  // Your logic for loading your GraphQLSchema
  return buildSchema(readFileSync(schemaString, 'utf8'))
}
```

<Callout>
  The second parameter passed to the loader function is a config object that includes a `pluginContext` property. This
  value is passed to any executed plugins, so the loader can modify them to pass any additional information to those
  plugins.
</Callout>

### Loading API URL from TypeScript file example:

If you store your API config in a file, and don't want to repeat the URL in the codegen config. You can follow the following example:

```ts
export const API_URL = 'https://example.com/graphql'
export const PUBLIC_TOKEN = '12345'
```

Create custom loader file:

```ts
import fetch from 'cross-fetch'
import { getIntrospectionQuery, buildClientSchema } from 'graphql'
import { API_URL, PUBLIC_TOKEN } from './config'

export default async () => {
  const introspectionQuery = getIntrospectionQuery()

  const response = await fetch(API_URL, {
    method: 'POST',
    headers: {
      'Content-Type': 'application/json',
      'Access-Token': PUBLIC_TOKEN
    },
    body: JSON.stringify({ query: introspectionQuery })
  })

  const data = await response.json()

  return buildClientSchema(data.data)
}
```

Add custom loader to your codegen config:

```ts {7}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: [
    {
      'my-api': {
        loader: './codegen-loader.ts'
      }
    }
  ]
};
export default config;

```

Finally, make sure that you have installed `ts-node`, so TypeScript file can be transpiled before running codegen.

In your `package.json` script, add `-r ts-node/register` argument to use `ts-node` transpiler.

```json filename="package.json" /-r ts-node\/register/
{
  "scripts": {
    "codegen": "graphql-codegen -r ts-node/register --config codegen.json"
  }
}
```

Commit message:

SEO: add `description` to docs (#9168)
* SEO: add `description` to docs

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

* prettier

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

website/src/pages/docs/config-reference/schema-field.mdx, after:

---
description: How to specify your GraphQL Schema in GraphQL Code Generator. Learn how to load your schema from a remote server, local file, or multiple files.
---

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'

# `schema` field

The `schema` field should point to your `GraphQLSchema` - there are multiple ways you can specify it and load your `GraphQLSchema`.

`schema` can either be a `string` pointing to your schema or a `string[]` pointing to multiple schemas that will be merged.

## How to use it?

### Root-level

You can specify the `schema` field in your root level config, as follows:

```ts {4}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'http://localhost:3000/graphql',
  generates: {
    './src/types.ts': {
      plugins: ['typescript']
    }
  }
};
export default config;

```

### Output-file level

Or, you can specify it per-output file level. This way you can

```ts {6,10}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  generates: {
    './src/types1.ts': {
      schema: 'http://server1.com/graphql',
      plugins: ['typescript']
    },
    './src/types2.ts': {
      schema: 'http://server2.com/graphql',
      plugins: ['typescript']
    }
  },
};
export default config;

```

### Multiple schemas and client-side schema

You can also specify `schema` on both levels: root and output-file, and then GraphQL Code Generator will merge both schemas into one:

```ts {4,7}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'http://localhost:3000/graphql',
  generates: {
    './src/types.ts': {
      schema: './schema.graphql',
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-operations']
    }
  }
};
export default config;

```

<Callout>
  It's also helpful if you have a remote schema from a server and a client-side schema available in your client-side.
</Callout>

## Available formats

The following can be specified as a single value or an array with mixed values.

### URL

You can specify a URL to load your `GraphQLSchema` from:

```ts {4}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'http://localhost:3000/graphql',
  // ...
};
export default config;
```

#### Supported Configuration

##### `headers`

You can also specify custom HTTP headers to be sent with the request:

```ts {7-9}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: [
    {
      'http://localhost:3000/graphql': {
        headers: {
          Authorization: 'YOUR-TOKEN-HERE',
        },
      },
    },
  ],
};
export default config;

```

##### `customFetch`

You can specify a custom fetch function for the HTTP request, using the module name you wish to use:



```ts {7}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: [
    {
      'http://localhost:3000/graphql': {
        customFetch: 'my-custom-fetch',
      }
    }
  ]
};
export default config;
```


##### `method`

You can specify an HTTP method for the introspection query (the default value is `POST`).

```ts {7}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: [
    {
      'http://localhost:3000/graphql': {
        method: 'GET',
      }
    }
  ]
};
export default config;

```

### JSON

You can point to a local `.json` file that contains [GraphQL Introspection](https://graphql.org/learn/introspection) JSON.


```ts {4}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.json',
  // ...
};
export default config;
```


### Local `.graphql` files

You can point to a single `.graphql` file that contains the AST string of your schema:

```ts {4}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.graphql',
  // ...
};
export default config;
```

Or, you can point to multiple files using a glob expression (codegen will merge the schema files for you):



```ts {4}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'src/**/*.graphql',
  // ...
};
export default config;
```

You can also specify multiple patterns:


```ts {4}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: ['src/dir1/**/*.graphql', 'src/dir2/**/*.graphql'],
  // ...
};
export default config;
```


And, you can specify files to exclude/ignore, using the `!` sign:

```ts {4}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: ['src/**/*.graphql', '!*.generated.graphql'],
  // ...
};
export default config;
```

<Callout>All provided glob expressions are evaluated together. The usage is similar to `.gitignore`.</Callout>

#### Supported Configuration

##### `skipGraphQLImport`

By default, codegen skips `graphql-import` to load all files using glob expressions.

If you are using `graphql-import` syntax in your schema definitions, you can tell codegen to use those import statements:


```ts {7}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: [
    {
      './src/**/*.ts': {
        skipGraphQLImport: true
      },
    },
  ],
};
export default config;
```


##### `commentDescriptions`

When enabled, converts all deprecated forms of GraphQL comments (marked with `#`) into a GraphQL description (marked with `"`) during the parsing phase.


```ts {7}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: [
    {
      './src/**/*.ts': {
        commentDescriptions: true
      },
    },
  ],
};
export default config;
```



##### `assumeValidSDL`

Set to true to assume the SDL is valid, and skip any SDL syntax validations.


```ts {7}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: [
    {
      './src/**/*.ts': {
        assumeValidSDL: true
      },
    },
  ],
};
export default config;
```

### Code Files

You can use code files, and the codegen will try to extract the GraphQL schema from it, based on `gql` tag:

```ts {4}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: './src/**/*.ts'
};
export default config;
```

The codegen will try to load the file as an AST and look for exact GraphQL strings, but if it can't find those, it will try to `require` the file and looks for operations in the default export.

#### Supported Configuration

##### `noRequire`

You can disable the `require` if it causes errors for you (for example, because of a different module system or missing dependency):

```ts {7}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: [
    {
      './src/**/*.ts': {
        noRequire: true,
      },
    },
  ],
};
export default config;
```

##### `noPluck`

You can disable the AST lookup phase and tell codegen to skip and directly try to `require` each file:


```ts {7}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: [
    {
      './src/**/*.ts': {
        noPluck: true,
      },
    },
  ],
};
export default config;
```

##### `assumeValid`

Set this to `true` to tell codegen to skip AST validation.

```ts {7}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: [
    {
      './src/**/*.ts': {
        assumeValid: true,
      },
    },
  ],
};
export default config;
```

### JavaScript export

You can also specify a code file that exports your `GraphQLSchema` object as export `schema` or as default export.



```ts {4}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.js'
};
export default config;
```
```js
const { buildSchema } = require('graphql')

module.exports = buildSchema(/* GraphQL */ `
  type MyType {
    foo: String!
  }

  type Query {
    myType: MyType!
  }
`)
```

<Callout>
  You can also import from TypeScript files, but don't forget to specify [require field](./require-field).
</Callout>

### String

You can specify your schema directly as an AST string in your config file. It's handy for testing.


```ts {4}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'type MyType { foo: String } type Query { myType: MyType }'
};
export default config;
```


### GitHub

You can load your schema file from a remote GitHub file, using the following syntax:

```ts {4}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'github:user/repo#branchName:path/to/file.graphql'
};
export default config;
```


<Callout>You can load from a JSON file, `.graphql` file, or from a code file containing `gql` tag syntax.</Callout>

### Git

You can load your schema file from a Git repository using the following syntax:

```ts {4}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'git:branch:path/to/file.graphql'
};
export default config;
```

<Callout>You can load from a JSON file, `.graphql` file, or from a code file containing `gql` tag syntax.</Callout>

### Apollo Engine

You can load your schema from Apollo Engine with the following syntax:

```ts
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: [
    {
      'apollo-engine': {
        engine: {
          apiKey: 'APOLLO_ENGINE_KEY_ID',
        },
        graph: 'GRAPH_ID',
        variant: 'current',
      }
    }
  ]
};
export default config;

```

## Custom Schema Loader

If your schema has a different or complicated way of loading, you can point to a single code file that works for you.

```ts {7,12}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: [
    {
      'http://localhost:3000/graphql': {
        loader: './my-url-loader.js',
      }
    },
    {
      'schema.graphql': {
        loader: './my-file-loader.js',
      }
    }
  ],
};
export default config;

```

Your custom loader should export a default function that returns `GraphQLSchema` object, or an identifier called `schema`. For example:

```js
const { readFileSync } = require('node:fs')
const { buildSchema } = require('graphql')

module.exports = (schemaString, config) => {
  // Your logic for loading your GraphQLSchema
  return buildSchema(readFileSync(schemaString, 'utf8'))
}
```

<Callout>
  The second parameter passed to the loader function is a config object that includes a `pluginContext` property. This
  value is passed to any executed plugins, so the loader can modify them to pass any additional information to those
  plugins.
</Callout>

### Loading API URL from TypeScript file example:

If you store your API config in a file, and don't want to repeat the URL in the codegen config. You can follow the following example:

```ts
export const API_URL = 'https://example.com/graphql'
export const PUBLIC_TOKEN = '12345'
```

Create custom loader file:

```ts
import fetch from 'cross-fetch'
import { getIntrospectionQuery, buildClientSchema } from 'graphql'
import { API_URL, PUBLIC_TOKEN } from './config'

export default async () => {
  const introspectionQuery = getIntrospectionQuery()

  const response = await fetch(API_URL, {
    method: 'POST',
    headers: {
      'Content-Type': 'application/json',
      'Access-Token': PUBLIC_TOKEN
    },
    body: JSON.stringify({ query: introspectionQuery })
  })

  const data = await response.json()

  return buildClientSchema(data.data)
}
```

Add custom loader to your codegen config:

```ts {7}
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: [
    {
      'my-api': {
        loader: './codegen-loader.ts'
      }
    }
  ]
};
export default config;

```

Finally, make sure that you have installed `ts-node`, so TypeScript file can be transpiled before running codegen.

In your `package.json` script, add `-r ts-node/register` argument to use `ts-node` transpiler.

```json filename="package.json" /-r ts-node\/register/
{
  "scripts": {
    "codegen": "graphql-codegen -r ts-node/register --config codegen.json"
  }
}
```
