docs/templates/typescript-resolvers.md, before:

---
id: typescript-resolvers
title: Typescript Resolvers Template
---

This template extends the [base TypeScript template](../typescript/) and adds Resolvers signature to the generated output.

## Requirements

To use this template, you need a TypeScript project. Also make sure to install `@types/graphql`.

## How to use?

Start by using the template like any other Codegen template:

```
gql-gen --template graphql-codegen-typescript-resolvers-template --schema schema.json --out ./src/resolvers-types.ts
```

> You don't need to specify GraphQL documents.

Then, in your code, write your resolvers, and specify the object type by importing it from the generated file, according to the resolver you are writing:

```typescript
import { QueryResolvers } from './resolvers-types';

export const resolvers: QueryResolvers.Resolvers = {
  myQuery: (root, args, context) => {}
};
```

Now, your `root, args, context` will be types, and you'll get static type checking for the fields names, type and for the resolver return value.

## How it works?

It adds the generic resolvers signature to the top of the file:

```typescript
export type Resolver<Result, Parent = any, Context = any, Args = never> = (
  parent: Parent,
  args: Args,
  context: Context,
  info: GraphQLResolveInfo
) => Promise<Result> | Result;

export interface ISubscriptionResolverObject<Result, Parent, Context, Args> {
  subscribe<R = Result, P = Parent>(
    parent: P,
    args: Args,
    context: Context,
    info: GraphQLResolveInfo
  ): AsyncIterator<R | Result>;
  resolve?<R = Result, P = Parent>(
    parent: P,
    args: Args,
    context: Context,
    info: GraphQLResolveInfo
  ): R | Result | Promise<R | Result>;
}

export type SubscriptionResolver<Result, Parent = any, Context = any, Args = never> =
  | ((...args: any[]) => ISubscriptionResolverObject<Result, Parent, Context, Args>)
  | ISubscriptionResolverObject<Result, Parent, Context, Args>;
```

Then, it creates a default TypeScript resolvers signature, according to your GraphQL schema:

```graphql
type Query {
  allUsers: [User]
  userById(id: Int!): User
}

type User {
  id: Int!
  name: String!
  email: String!
}
```

Will output:

```typescript
export namespace QueryResolvers {
  export interface Resolvers<Context = any> {
    allUsers?: AllUsersResolver<(User | null)[], any, Context>;
    userById?: UserByIdResolver<User | null, any, Context>;
  }

  export type AllUsersResolver<R = (User | null)[], Parent = any, Context = any> = Resolver<R, Parent, Context>;
  export type UserByIdResolver<R = User | null, Parent = any, Context = any> = Resolver<
    R,
    Parent,
    Context,
    UserByIdArgs
  >;
  export interface UserByIdArgs {
    id: number;
  }
}

export namespace UserResolvers {
  export interface Resolvers<Context = any> {
    id?: IdResolver<number, any, Context>;
    name?: NameResolver<string, any, Context>;
    email?: EmailResolver<string, any, Context>;
  }

  export type IdResolver<R = number, Parent = any, Context = any> = Resolver<R, Parent, Context>;
  export type NameResolver<R = string, Parent = any, Context = any> = Resolver<R, Parent, Context>;
  export type EmailResolver<R = string, Parent = any, Context = any> = Resolver<R, Parent, Context>;
}
```

## Template Customization

This template extends the [base TypeScript template](../typescript/), so you can use any configuration variables that supported there.

If you wish, you can customize the resolver signature by using the generic declaration and specifying other types.

To set the interface/type of your GraphQL `Context`, you can use the generic of the generated interface:

```typescript
import { QueryResolvers } from './resolvers-types';
import { MyContext } from './context';

export const resolvers: QueryResolvers.Resolvers<MyContext> = {
  myQuery: (root, args, context) => {}
};
```

> If you wish, refer to "Custom Context Type" section to read how to set the context type to all generated resolvers without overriding it each time.

Also, if you wish your field-resolver to return something else, you can override it like that: `UserResolvers.IdResolver<string, MyUser, MyContext>`.

## Custom Context Type

If you wish to use a custom type for your GraphQL context, and you don't want to specify it each time you declare your resolvers, you can do it by creating `gql-gen.json` file, and add the following:

```json
{
  "prepend": ["import { MyContext } from './context';"],
  "contextType": "MyContext"
}
```

And the codegen will set it automatically to this value instead of `any`.

Commit message:

Improve grammar and writing style of templates docs

docs/templates/typescript-resolvers.md, after:

---
id: typescript-resolvers
title: TypeScript Resolvers Template
---

This template extends the basic TypeScript template [`graphql-codegen-typescript-template`](typescript-typings) and thus shares a similar configuration.

## Pre-Requirements

A TypeScript project with `@types/graphql` installed.

## Installation

Install using `npm` (or `yarn`):

    $ npm install graphql-codegen-typescript-resolvers-template

## Usage

Run `gql-gen` as usual:

    $ gql-gen --template graphql-codegen-typescript-resolvers-template --schema schema.json --out ./src/resolvers-types.ts

Import the types from the generated file and use in the resolver:

```typescript
import { QueryResolvers } from './resolvers-types';

export const resolvers: QueryResolvers.Resolvers = {
  myQuery: (root, args, context) => {}
};
```

This will make the resolver fully typed and compatible with typescript compiler, including the handler's arguments and return value.

## How It Works

It adds the generic resolvers signature to the top of the file:

```typescript
export type Resolver<Result, Parent = any, Context = any, Args = never> = (
  parent: Parent,
  args: Args,
  context: Context,
  info: GraphQLResolveInfo
) => Promise<Result> | Result;

export interface ISubscriptionResolverObject<Result, Parent, Context, Args> {
  subscribe<R = Result, P = Parent>(
    parent: P,
    args: Args,
    context: Context,
    info: GraphQLResolveInfo
  ): AsyncIterator<R | Result>;
  resolve?<R = Result, P = Parent>(
    parent: P,
    args: Args,
    context: Context,
    info: GraphQLResolveInfo
  ): R | Result | Promise<R | Result>;
}

export type SubscriptionResolver<Result, Parent = any, Context = any, Args = never> =
  | ((...args: any[]) => ISubscriptionResolverObject<Result, Parent, Context, Args>)
  | ISubscriptionResolverObject<Result, Parent, Context, Args>;
```

Then, it creates a default TypeScript resolvers signature, according to your GraphQL schema:

```graphql
type Query {
  allUsers: [User]
  userById(id: Int!): User
}

type User {
  id: Int!
  name: String!
  email: String!
}
```

Given the schema above, the output should be the following:

```typescript
export namespace QueryResolvers {
  export interface Resolvers<Context = any> {
    allUsers?: AllUsersResolver<(User | null)[], any, Context>;
    userById?: UserByIdResolver<User | null, any, Context>;
  }

  export type AllUsersResolver<R = (User | null)[], Parent = any, Context = any> = Resolver<R, Parent, Context>;
  export type UserByIdResolver<R = User | null, Parent = any, Context = any> = Resolver<
    R,
    Parent,
    Context,
    UserByIdArgs
  >;
  export interface UserByIdArgs {
    id: number;
  }
}

export namespace UserResolvers {
  export interface Resolvers<Context = any> {
    id?: IdResolver<number, any, Context>;
    name?: NameResolver<string, any, Context>;
    email?: EmailResolver<string, any, Context>;
  }

  export type IdResolver<R = number, Parent = any, Context = any> = Resolver<R, Parent, Context>;
  export type NameResolver<R = string, Parent = any, Context = any> = Resolver<R, Parent, Context>;
  export type EmailResolver<R = string, Parent = any, Context = any> = Resolver<R, Parent, Context>;
}
```

## Template Customization

The generated resolver's signature type can be overridden or modified by taking advantage of the generic deceleration feature. Here's an example of how we can use a different type for the context:

```typescript
import { QueryResolvers } from './resolvers-types';
import { MyContext } from './context';

export const resolvers: QueryResolvers.Resolvers<MyContext> = {
  myQuery: (root, args, context) => {}
};
```

Field resolvers can be overriden or modfied as well. For an instance, if we would like to override the behavior of the `id` field's resolver type, we can take advantage of its corresponding generic type like so: `UserResolvers.IdResolver<string, MyUser, MyContext>`.

## Custom Context Type

If you wish to use a custom type for your GraphQL context, yet you don't want to specify it each and every time you declare your resolvers, you can do it by creating a `gql-gen.json` file with the following contents:

```json
{
  "prepend": ["import { MyContext } from './context';"],
  "contextType": "MyContext"
}
```

The JSON above should be used to modify the context type of the resolver.
