website/src/pages/plugins/java/java-apollo-android.mdx, before:

---
title: java-apollo-android
---

import { Callout, PackageCmd } from '@theguild/components'
import { PluginApiDocs, PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<PluginHeader />

## Prepare your env

To get started with these plugins and preset, make sure you have the following installed:

- Node.js (10 or later)
- NPM or Yarn

Run the following in your Android project:

<PackageCmd packages={[{ cmd: 'init' }, 'graphql', '-D @graphql-codegen/cli @graphql-codegen/java-apollo-android']} />

Then, create `codegen.yml` with the following configuration:

```yaml
schema: POINT_TO_YOUR_SCHEMA
documents: POINT_TO_YOUR_GRAPHQL_OPERATIONS
generates:
  ./app/src/main/java/:
    preset: java-apollo-android
    config:
      package: 'com.my.app.generated.graphql'
      fragmentPackage: 'com.my.app.generated.graphql'
      typePackage: 'type'
    plugins:
      - java-apollo-android
```

<Callout>Also, make sure to add `node_modules` to your `.gitignore` file.</Callout>

To integrate with your Gradle build, you can add the following to your app Gradle file:

```
preBuild.doFirst {
  def proc = "yarn graphql-codegen".execute()
  proc.waitForProcessOutput(System.out, System.err)
}

build.dependsOn preBuild
```

This will make sure to run and generate output before each time you build your project.

## Usage

You can find a [repository with a working example using AppSync](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-codegen-appsync-android-example).

<PluginApiDocs />

Commit message:

SEO: add `description` to docs
Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

website/src/pages/plugins/java/java-apollo-android.mdx, after:

---
title: java-apollo-android
description: GraphQL Code Generator plugin for generating Java code for Apollo Android.
---

import { Callout, PackageCmd } from '@theguild/components'
import { PluginApiDocs, PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<PluginHeader />

## Prepare your env

To get started with these plugins and preset, make sure you have the following installed:

- Node.js (10 or later)
- NPM or Yarn

Run the following in your Android project:

<PackageCmd packages={[{ cmd: 'init' }, 'graphql', '-D @graphql-codegen/cli @graphql-codegen/java-apollo-android']} />

Then, create `codegen.yml` with the following configuration:

```yaml
schema: POINT_TO_YOUR_SCHEMA
documents: POINT_TO_YOUR_GRAPHQL_OPERATIONS
generates:
  ./app/src/main/java/:
    preset: java-apollo-android
    config:
      package: 'com.my.app.generated.graphql'
      fragmentPackage: 'com.my.app.generated.graphql'
      typePackage: 'type'
    plugins:
      - java-apollo-android
```

<Callout>Also, make sure to add `node_modules` to your `.gitignore` file.</Callout>

To integrate with your Gradle build, you can add the following to your app Gradle file:

```
preBuild.doFirst {
  def proc = "yarn graphql-codegen".execute()
  proc.waitForProcessOutput(System.out, System.err)
}

build.dependsOn preBuild
```

This will make sure to run and generate output before each time you build your project.

## Usage

You can find a [repository with a working example using AppSync](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-codegen-appsync-android-example).

<PluginApiDocs />
