website/src/pages/plugins/java/kotlin.mdx, before:

---
title: kotlin
---

import { Callout, PackageCmd } from '@theguild/components'
import { PluginApiDocs, PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<PluginHeader />

The `kotlin` plugin generates Kotlin `classes` for Enums and Input types.

You can use this plugin to generate Java enums based on your GraphQL schema, and it also generates a type-safe Kotlin transformer for GraphQL `input` types.

## Prepare your environment

To get started with these plugins and preset, make sure you have the following installed:

- Node.js (10 or later)
- NPM or Yarn

Run the following in your Android project:

<PackageCmd packages={[{ cmd: 'init' }, 'graphql', '-D @graphql-codegen/cli @graphql-codegen/kotlin']} />

Then, create `codegen.yml` with the following configuration:

```yaml
schema: POINT_TO_YOUR_SCHEMA
documents: POINT_TO_YOUR_GRAPHQL_OPERATIONS
generates:
  ./app/src/Types.kt:
    plugins:
      - kotlin
```

<Callout>Also, make sure to add `node_modules` to your `.gitignore` file.</Callout>

<PluginApiDocs />

Commit message:

SEO: add `description` to docs
Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

website/src/pages/plugins/java/kotlin.mdx, after:

---
title: kotlin
description: Kotlin plugin for GraphQL Code Generator. Generate Kotlin classes for Enums and Input types.
---

import { Callout, PackageCmd } from '@theguild/components'
import { PluginApiDocs, PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<PluginHeader />

The `kotlin` plugin generates Kotlin `classes` for Enums and Input types.

You can use this plugin to generate Java enums based on your GraphQL schema, and it also generates a type-safe Kotlin transformer for GraphQL `input` types.

## Prepare your environment

To get started with these plugins and preset, make sure you have the following installed:

- Node.js (10 or later)
- NPM or Yarn

Run the following in your Android project:

<PackageCmd packages={[{ cmd: 'init' }, 'graphql', '-D @graphql-codegen/cli @graphql-codegen/kotlin']} />

Then, create `codegen.yml` with the following configuration:

```yaml
schema: POINT_TO_YOUR_SCHEMA
documents: POINT_TO_YOUR_GRAPHQL_OPERATIONS
generates:
  ./app/src/Types.kt:
    plugins:
      - kotlin
```

<Callout>Also, make sure to add `node_modules` to your `.gitignore` file.</Callout>

<PluginApiDocs />
