website/src/pages/docs/advanced/profiler.mdx, before:

import { PackageCmd } from '@theguild/components'

# GraphQL Code Generator Profiler

GraphQL Code Generator CLI provides a flag that enables the profiler mode, as follows:

<PackageCmd
  packages={[{ name: 'graphql-code-generator --config graphql-codegen.ts --profile', cmd: 'run', isNpx: true }]}
/>

GraphQL Code Generator operates as usual (generating your files) but also generates a `codegen-[timestamp].json` profile file.

This profile file can be loaded into the Chrome Dev Tools as follows:

1. Open a new Chrome tab (or other browsers) and open the Chrome Dev Tools

2. Click on the "Performance" tab

3. Load the `codegen-[timestamp].json` file as follows:

![Profiler](/assets/docs/codegen-profile-1.png)

4. You then have access to the graph view:

![Profiler](/assets/docs/codegen-profile-2.png)

The graph view shows the time spent on the main tasks of the codegen.

Inspecting it allows you to identify:

- if your configuration could benefit from excluding some documents from loading
- if you are facing a bug that [should be reported](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/issues)

Commit message:

SEO: add `description` to docs
Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

website/src/pages/docs/advanced/profiler.mdx, after:

---
description: GraphQL Code Generator CLI provides a flag that enables the profiler mode. This allows you to identify performance bottlenecks in your codegen configuration.
---

import { PackageCmd } from '@theguild/components'

# GraphQL Code Generator Profiler

GraphQL Code Generator CLI provides a flag that enables the profiler mode, as follows:

<PackageCmd
  packages={[{ name: 'graphql-code-generator --config graphql-codegen.ts --profile', cmd: 'run', isNpx: true }]}
/>

GraphQL Code Generator operates as usual (generating your files) but also generates a `codegen-[timestamp].json` profile file.

This profile file can be loaded into the Chrome Dev Tools as follows:

1. Open a new Chrome tab (or other browsers) and open the Chrome Dev Tools

2. Click on the "Performance" tab

3. Load the `codegen-[timestamp].json` file as follows:

![Profiler](/assets/docs/codegen-profile-1.png)

4. You then have access to the graph view:

![Profiler](/assets/docs/codegen-profile-2.png)

The graph view shows the time spent on the main tasks of the codegen.

Inspecting it allows you to identify:

- if your configuration could benefit from excluding some documents from loading
- if you are facing a bug that [should be reported](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/issues)
