website/src/pages/docs/advanced/programmatic-usage.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'

# Programmatic Usage

GraphQL Code Generator also provides a complete programmatic API.

The programmatic API can be used if you need to customize the execution flow or write a tool that uses the codegen.

## Basic Programmatic Usage

In order to use the programmatic API, start by importing `codegen` from `@graphql-codegen/core`:

```ts
import { codegen } from '@graphql-codegen/core'
```

Then, create a configuration object ([complete signature](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/blob/master/packages/utils/plugins-helpers/src/types.ts#L6-L21)):

```ts
import fs from 'node:fs'
import path from 'node:path'
import { buildSchema, printSchema, parse, GraphQLSchema } from 'graphql'
import * as typescriptPlugin from '@graphql-codegen/typescript'

const schema: GraphQLSchema = buildSchema(`type A { name: String }`)
const outputFile = 'relative/pathTo/filename.ts'
const config = {
  documents: [],
  config: {},
  // used by a plugin internally, although the 'typescript' plugin currently
  // returns the string output, rather than writing to a file
  filename: outputFile,
  schema: parse(printSchema(schema)),
  plugins: [
    // Each plugin should be an object
    {
      typescript: {} // Here you can pass configuration to the plugin
    }
  ],
  pluginMap: {
    typescript: typescriptPlugin
  }
}
```

<Callout>
  The `schema` field be a valid `GraphQLSchema` object. If you need to load your GraphQL schema from an external source
  (file, URL), you can use `loadSchema` from `@graphql-tools/load`.
</Callout>

Notice that a plugin name key in `pluginMap` and `plugins` must match to identify a plugin and its configuration.

<Callout>You need to import the plugin in your favorite way; you can also use `await import` to lazy load it.</Callout>

Then, provide the config object to `codegen`:

```ts
const output = await codegen(config)
await fs.writeFile(path.join(__dirname, outputFile), output, 'utf8')
console.log('Outputs generated!')
```

<Callout>
  We are using this API in the live demo on the GraphQL Code Generator website. [The code is
  here](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/blob/master/website/src/components/live-demo/generate.ts).
</Callout>

<Callout>
**Loading schema and documents**

You can use one of the tools from [`@graphql-tools`](https://github.com/ardatan/graphql-tools) for file loading, schema merging, transformations and more.

</Callout>

## Using the CLI instead of `core`

If you wish to have the benefits that `cli` package has (like loading schema and document files, parsing endpoints and more), you can use `require()` (or `import`) for `@graphql-codegen/cli` directly with Node.JS:

```js
import { generate } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

async function doSomething() {
  const generatedFiles = await generate(
    {
      schema: 'http://127.0.0.1:3000/graphql',
      documents: './src/**/*.graphql',
      generates: {
        [process.cwd() + '/models/types.d.ts']: {
          plugins: ['typescript']
        }
      }
    },
    true
  )
}
```

The return value should be of type `Promise<FileOutput[]>`.

<Callout type="warning">
  This usage will not work in a browser environment because the `cli` package depends on Node.js internals and the file
  system.
</Callout>

Commit message:

SEO: add `description` to docs (#9168)
* SEO: add `description` to docs

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

* prettier

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

website/src/pages/docs/advanced/programmatic-usage.mdx, after:

---
description: GraphQL Code Generator also provides a complete programmatic API. The programmatic API can be used if you need to customize the execution flow or write a tool that uses the codegen.
---

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'

# Programmatic Usage

GraphQL Code Generator also provides a complete programmatic API.

The programmatic API can be used if you need to customize the execution flow or write a tool that uses the codegen.

## Basic Programmatic Usage

In order to use the programmatic API, start by importing `codegen` from `@graphql-codegen/core`:

```ts
import { codegen } from '@graphql-codegen/core'
```

Then, create a configuration object ([complete signature](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/blob/master/packages/utils/plugins-helpers/src/types.ts#L6-L21)):

```ts
import fs from 'node:fs'
import path from 'node:path'
import { buildSchema, printSchema, parse, GraphQLSchema } from 'graphql'
import * as typescriptPlugin from '@graphql-codegen/typescript'

const schema: GraphQLSchema = buildSchema(`type A { name: String }`)
const outputFile = 'relative/pathTo/filename.ts'
const config = {
  documents: [],
  config: {},
  // used by a plugin internally, although the 'typescript' plugin currently
  // returns the string output, rather than writing to a file
  filename: outputFile,
  schema: parse(printSchema(schema)),
  plugins: [
    // Each plugin should be an object
    {
      typescript: {} // Here you can pass configuration to the plugin
    }
  ],
  pluginMap: {
    typescript: typescriptPlugin
  }
}
```

<Callout>
  The `schema` field be a valid `GraphQLSchema` object. If you need to load your GraphQL schema from an external source
  (file, URL), you can use `loadSchema` from `@graphql-tools/load`.
</Callout>

Notice that a plugin name key in `pluginMap` and `plugins` must match to identify a plugin and its configuration.

<Callout>You need to import the plugin in your favorite way; you can also use `await import` to lazy load it.</Callout>

Then, provide the config object to `codegen`:

```ts
const output = await codegen(config)
await fs.writeFile(path.join(__dirname, outputFile), output, 'utf8')
console.log('Outputs generated!')
```

<Callout>
  We are using this API in the live demo on the GraphQL Code Generator website. [The code is
  here](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/blob/master/website/src/components/live-demo/generate.ts).
</Callout>

<Callout>
**Loading schema and documents**

You can use one of the tools from [`@graphql-tools`](https://github.com/ardatan/graphql-tools) for file loading, schema merging, transformations and more.

</Callout>

## Using the CLI instead of `core`

If you wish to have the benefits that `cli` package has (like loading schema and document files, parsing endpoints and more), you can use `require()` (or `import`) for `@graphql-codegen/cli` directly with Node.JS:

```js
import { generate } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

async function doSomething() {
  const generatedFiles = await generate(
    {
      schema: 'http://127.0.0.1:3000/graphql',
      documents: './src/**/*.graphql',
      generates: {
        [process.cwd() + '/models/types.d.ts']: {
          plugins: ['typescript']
        }
      }
    },
    true
  )
}
```

The return value should be of type `Promise<FileOutput[]>`.

<Callout type="warning">
  This usage will not work in a browser environment because the `cli` package depends on Node.js internals and the file
  system.
</Callout>
