website/src/pages/plugins/typescript/named-operations-object.mdx, before:

---
title: named-operations-object
---

import { PluginApiDocs, PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<PluginHeader />

This plugin generates an object containing a list of all your GraphQL operations and fragments. This is useful if you are using Apollo-Client and wish to have type validation when you are using `refetchQueries`.

All operations and fragments are being exported by their name (so unnamed operations are being ignored), in the following structure:

```ts
export const namedOperations = {
  Query: [...],
  Mutation: [...],
  Subscription: [...],
  Fragment: [...]
}
```

<PluginApiDocs />

## How to use?

Include the plugin within your output (into an existing `.js`/`.ts` file, or a new file), for example:

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'YOUR_SCHEMA',
  documents: 'YOUR_OPERATIONS',
  generates: {
    './types.ts': {
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-operations', 'named-operations-object']
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

### Refetch queries without input parameters

From this point, you should be able to import `namedOperations` from that file, and use the names within your code. For example, with Apollo Client and a refetch query that has no input parameters, you can simply add the named operation to the `refetchQueries` array:

```ts
client
  .mutate(
    { ... },
    // No more typos, and you get auto-completion and build time validation
    { refetchQueries: [namedOperations.Query.myQuery] }
  )
```

### Refetch queries with input parameters

For refetch queries that contain input parameters, instead of adding a named operation to the `refetchQueries` array, you need to add an Apollo [`QueryOptions`](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/data/queries/#options) object. The `query` value inside the `QueryOptions` object **does not take one of the entries in the `namedOperations` list**. Instead, the `query` value takes a TypedDocument constant which corresponds to your query and should be generated by default.

A `refetchQueries` array that contains multiple queries, some of which contain input parameters, might look something like this:

```ts
client
  .mutate(
    { ... },
    // No more typos, and you get auto-completion and build time validation
    { refetchQueries: [
      namedOperations.Query.myQueryWithoutInputParams,
      {
        query: MyQueryWithInputParamsDocument,
        variables: { inputParam }
      }
    ] }
  )
```

Commit message:

SEO: add `description` to docs (#9168)
* SEO: add `description` to docs

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

* prettier

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

website/src/pages/plugins/typescript/named-operations-object.mdx, after:

---
title: named-operations-object
description: Generates an object containing a list of all your GraphQL operations and fragments. This is useful if you are using Apollo-Client and wish to have type validation when you are using `refetchQueries`.
---

import { PluginApiDocs, PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<PluginHeader />

This plugin generates an object containing a list of all your GraphQL operations and fragments. This is useful if you are using Apollo-Client and wish to have type validation when you are using `refetchQueries`.

All operations and fragments are being exported by their name (so unnamed operations are being ignored), in the following structure:

```ts
export const namedOperations = {
  Query: [...],
  Mutation: [...],
  Subscription: [...],
  Fragment: [...]
}
```

<PluginApiDocs />

## How to use?

Include the plugin within your output (into an existing `.js`/`.ts` file, or a new file), for example:

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'YOUR_SCHEMA',
  documents: 'YOUR_OPERATIONS',
  generates: {
    './types.ts': {
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-operations', 'named-operations-object']
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

### Refetch queries without input parameters

From this point, you should be able to import `namedOperations` from that file, and use the names within your code. For example, with Apollo Client and a refetch query that has no input parameters, you can simply add the named operation to the `refetchQueries` array:

```ts
client
  .mutate(
    { ... },
    // No more typos, and you get auto-completion and build time validation
    { refetchQueries: [namedOperations.Query.myQuery] }
  )
```

### Refetch queries with input parameters

For refetch queries that contain input parameters, instead of adding a named operation to the `refetchQueries` array, you need to add an Apollo [`QueryOptions`](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/data/queries/#options) object. The `query` value inside the `QueryOptions` object **does not take one of the entries in the `namedOperations` list**. Instead, the `query` value takes a TypedDocument constant which corresponds to your query and should be generated by default.

A `refetchQueries` array that contains multiple queries, some of which contain input parameters, might look something like this:

```ts
client
  .mutate(
    { ... },
    // No more typos, and you get auto-completion and build time validation
    { refetchQueries: [
      namedOperations.Query.myQueryWithoutInputParams,
      {
        query: MyQueryWithInputParamsDocument,
        variables: { inputParam }
      }
    ] }
  )
```
