website/src/pages/plugins/typescript/typescript-nhost.mdx, before:

---
title: typescript-nhost
---

import { PluginApiDocs, PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<PluginHeader hasOperationsNote />
<PluginApiDocs />

This plugin generates the schema for the [`Typescript Nhost SDK`](https://docs.nhost.io/reference/javascript).

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'http://localhost:4000',
  generates: {
    'src/schema.ts': { plugins: ['typescript-nhost'] }
  }
}
export default config
```

## Usage

### Step 1: Generate the schema

First, install GraphQL codegen and the Nhost Typescript plugin:

```sh
yarn add -D @graphql-codegen/cli @graphql-codegen/typescript-nhost
```

Then configure the code generator by adding a `codegen.yaml` file:

```yaml filename="codegen.yaml"
schema:
  - http://localhost:1337/v1/graphql:
      headers:
        x-hasura-admin-secret: nhost-admin-secret
generates:
  ./src/schema.ts:
    plugins:
      - typescript-nhost
```

### Step 2: Install and configure the Nhost Typescript SDK

```sh
yarn add @nhost/nhost-js
```

```ts filename="src/main.ts"
import { NhostClient } from '@nhost/nhost-js'
import schema from './schema'

const nhost = new NhostClient({ subdomain: 'localhost', schema })
```

A GraphQL query named `todos` will then be accessible through:

```ts
const todos = await nhost.graphql.query.todos({ select: { contents: true } })
```

The `todos` object will be strongly typed based on the GraphQL schema, and the fields that would have been selected in the query.

## Custom scalars

It is possible to customize the scalar types in adapting the configuration file.
The following example illustrates how to specify some Hasura scalars. The `@graphql-codegen/add` plugin is necessary to be able to add the definition of the `JSONValue` type.

```yaml filename="codegen.yaml"
schema:
  - http://localhost:1337/v1/graphql:
      headers:
        x-hasura-admin-secret: nhost-admin-secret
generates:
  ./src/schema.ts:
    plugins:
      - typescript-nhost
      - add:
          content: 'export type JSONValue = string | number | boolean | { [x: string]: JSONValue } | Array<JSONValue>;'
    config:
      scalars:
        uuid: 'string'
        bigint: 'number'
        citext: 'string'
        timestamptz: 'string'
        json: 'JSONValue'
        jsonb: 'JSONValue'
        bytea: 'string'
```

Commit message:

SEO: add `description` to docs (#9168)
* SEO: add `description` to docs

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

* prettier

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

website/src/pages/plugins/typescript/typescript-nhost.mdx, after:

---
title: typescript-nhost
description: GraphQL Code Generator plugin for Nhost Typescript SDK. It generates the schema for the Typescript Nhost SDK.
---

import { PluginApiDocs, PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<PluginHeader hasOperationsNote />
<PluginApiDocs />

This plugin generates the schema for the [`Typescript Nhost SDK`](https://docs.nhost.io/reference/javascript).

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'http://localhost:4000',
  generates: {
    'src/schema.ts': { plugins: ['typescript-nhost'] }
  }
}
export default config
```

## Usage

### Step 1: Generate the schema

First, install GraphQL codegen and the Nhost Typescript plugin:

```sh
yarn add -D @graphql-codegen/cli @graphql-codegen/typescript-nhost
```

Then configure the code generator by adding a `codegen.yaml` file:

```yaml filename="codegen.yaml"
schema:
  - http://localhost:1337/v1/graphql:
      headers:
        x-hasura-admin-secret: nhost-admin-secret
generates:
  ./src/schema.ts:
    plugins:
      - typescript-nhost
```

### Step 2: Install and configure the Nhost Typescript SDK

```sh
yarn add @nhost/nhost-js
```

```ts filename="src/main.ts"
import { NhostClient } from '@nhost/nhost-js'
import schema from './schema'

const nhost = new NhostClient({ subdomain: 'localhost', schema })
```

A GraphQL query named `todos` will then be accessible through:

```ts
const todos = await nhost.graphql.query.todos({ select: { contents: true } })
```

The `todos` object will be strongly typed based on the GraphQL schema, and the fields that would have been selected in the query.

## Custom scalars

It is possible to customize the scalar types in adapting the configuration file.
The following example illustrates how to specify some Hasura scalars. The `@graphql-codegen/add` plugin is necessary to be able to add the definition of the `JSONValue` type.

```yaml filename="codegen.yaml"
schema:
  - http://localhost:1337/v1/graphql:
      headers:
        x-hasura-admin-secret: nhost-admin-secret
generates:
  ./src/schema.ts:
    plugins:
      - typescript-nhost
      - add:
          content: 'export type JSONValue = string | number | boolean | { [x: string]: JSONValue } | Array<JSONValue>;'
    config:
      scalars:
        uuid: 'string'
        bigint: 'number'
        citext: 'string'
        timestamptz: 'string'
        json: 'JSONValue'
        jsonb: 'JSONValue'
        bytea: 'string'
```
