website/src/pages/plugins/typescript/typescript-graphql-files-modules.mdx, before:

---
title: typescript-graphql-files-modules
---

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'
import { PluginApiDocs, PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<PluginHeader />

<Callout>
**Webpack Integration**

If you wish to have a simpler integration in a Webpack project, use [`graphql-let`](https://github.com/piglovesyou/graphql-let), it uses this plugin behind the scenes, and provides simpler developer experience.

</Callout>

## Pre-Requirements

To use this template, make sure you are using [`graphql-tag/loader`](https://github.com/apollographql/graphql-tag#webpack-preprocessing-with-graphql-tagloader) with Webpack.

<PluginApiDocs />

## Example

Given that you have a query named `MyQuery` in `my-query.graphql` file, this template will generate the following code:

```ts
declare module '*/my-query.graphql' {
  import { DocumentNode } from 'graphql'
  const MyQuery: DocumentNode

  export { MyQuery }

  export default defaultDocument
}
```

Accordingly, you can import the generated types and use it in your code:

```ts
import myQuery from './my-query.graphql'

// OR

import { myQuery } from './my-query.graphql'
```

Commit message:

SEO: add `description` to docs
Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

website/src/pages/plugins/typescript/typescript-graphql-files-modules.mdx, after:

---
title: typescript-graphql-files-modules
description: GraphQL Code Generator plugin for generating TypeScript types for GraphQL files. This plugin generates a single file per GraphQL file, and uses the `graphql-tag/loader` to load the GraphQL files.
---

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'
import { PluginApiDocs, PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<PluginHeader />

<Callout>
**Webpack Integration**

If you wish to have a simpler integration in a Webpack project, use [`graphql-let`](https://github.com/piglovesyou/graphql-let), it uses this plugin behind the scenes, and provides simpler developer experience.

</Callout>

## Pre-Requirements

To use this template, make sure you are using [`graphql-tag/loader`](https://github.com/apollographql/graphql-tag#webpack-preprocessing-with-graphql-tagloader) with Webpack.

<PluginApiDocs />

## Example

Given that you have a query named `MyQuery` in `my-query.graphql` file, this template will generate the following code:

```ts
declare module '*/my-query.graphql' {
  import { DocumentNode } from 'graphql'
  const MyQuery: DocumentNode

  export { MyQuery }

  export default defaultDocument
}
```

Accordingly, you can import the generated types and use it in your code:

```ts
import myQuery from './my-query.graphql'

// OR

import { myQuery } from './my-query.graphql'
```
