website/src/pages/plugins/typescript/typescript-type-graphql.mdx, before:

---
title: typescript-type-graphql
---

import { PluginApiDocs, PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<PluginHeader />

This plugin is similar to the basic TypeScript plugin. However, this package generates types that can be used by TypeGraphQL to generate a GraphQL schema. This is especially useful if you are building a service that is a gateway to multiple downstream GraphQL services, or otherwise combining GraphQL schemas. In this case, this plugin can be used to re-expose types defined in downstream GraphQL services without redefining them as TypeGraphQL objects. This plugin should be compatible with other client-side plugins, such as typescript-operations.

Some differences with the types generated by the basic TypeScript plugin:

- classes are generated instead of interfaces
- TypeGraphQL decorators like `@ObjectType` and `@Field` will be added

<PluginApiDocs />

Commit message:

SEO: add `description` to docs (#9168)
* SEO: add `description` to docs

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

* prettier

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

website/src/pages/plugins/typescript/typescript-type-graphql.mdx, after:

---
title: typescript-type-graphql
description: Generate TypeScript types for use with TypeGraphQL. This plugin is similar to the basic TypeScript plugin. However, this package generates types that can be used by TypeGraphQL to generate a GraphQL schema. This is especially useful if you are building a service that is a gateway to multiple downstream GraphQL services, or otherwise combining GraphQL schemas. In this case, this plugin can be used to re-expose types defined in downstream GraphQL services without redefining them as TypeGraphQL objects. This plugin should be compatible with other client-side plugins, such as typescript-operations.
---

import { PluginApiDocs, PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<PluginHeader />

This plugin is similar to the basic TypeScript plugin. However, this package generates types that can be used by TypeGraphQL to generate a GraphQL schema. This is especially useful if you are building a service that is a gateway to multiple downstream GraphQL services, or otherwise combining GraphQL schemas. In this case, this plugin can be used to re-expose types defined in downstream GraphQL services without redefining them as TypeGraphQL objects. This plugin should be compatible with other client-side plugins, such as typescript-operations.

Some differences with the types generated by the basic TypeScript plugin:

- classes are generated instead of interfaces
- TypeGraphQL decorators like `@ObjectType` and `@Field` will be added

<PluginApiDocs />
