website/src/pages/plugins/typescript/typescript-vue-apollo-smart-ops.mdx, before:

---
title: typescript-vue-apollo-smart-ops
---

import { PluginApiDocs, PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<PluginHeader hasOperationsNote />
<PluginApiDocs />

## Examples

### Queries

Using the generated query code.

#### Basic query

For the given input:

```graphql
query Messages($type: FeedType!) {
  feed(type: $type) {
    id
  }
}
```

We can use the generated code like this:

```vue
<template>
  <div>
    <div v-if="loading > 0">Loading…</div>
    <ul v-else>
      <li v-for="message in messages">{{ message.id }}</li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</template>

<script lang="ts">
import { useMessagesQuery } from '../generated/graphqlOperations'

export default {
  apollo: {
    messages: useMessagesQuery({
      // variables will be correctly typed here!
      variables: {
        type: 'HOT'
      },
      loadingKey: 'loading',
      update: data => data.feed
    })
  },
  data() {
    return {
      messages: null,
      loading: 0
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

#### Basic mutation

For the given operation:

```graphql
mutation CreateMessage($text: String!) {
  createMessage(text: $text) {
    id
  }
}
```

We can use the generated code like this:

```vue
<template>
  <div>
    <textarea v-model="text"></textarea>
    <button @click="send">Send Message</button>
  </div>
</template>

<script lang="ts">
import { createMessageMutation } from '../generated/graphqlOperations'

export default {
  data() {
    return {
      text: ''
    }
  },
  async send() {
    const result = await createMessageMutation(this, {
      variables: {
        text: this.text
      }
    })

    if (!result.success || !result.data) {
      alert('Failed to create message')
      return
    }

    const messageId = result.data.createMessage.id
  }
}
</script>
```

Commit message:

SEO: add `description` to docs
Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

website/src/pages/plugins/typescript/typescript-vue-apollo-smart-ops.mdx, after:

---
title: typescript-vue-apollo-smart-ops
description: A Vue plugin for Apollo GraphQL with smart operations. It generates Vue composition functions for your GraphQL queries and mutations.
---

import { PluginApiDocs, PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<PluginHeader hasOperationsNote />
<PluginApiDocs />

## Examples

### Queries

Using the generated query code.

#### Basic query

For the given input:

```graphql
query Messages($type: FeedType!) {
  feed(type: $type) {
    id
  }
}
```

We can use the generated code like this:

```vue
<template>
  <div>
    <div v-if="loading > 0">Loading…</div>
    <ul v-else>
      <li v-for="message in messages">{{ message.id }}</li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</template>

<script lang="ts">
import { useMessagesQuery } from '../generated/graphqlOperations'

export default {
  apollo: {
    messages: useMessagesQuery({
      // variables will be correctly typed here!
      variables: {
        type: 'HOT'
      },
      loadingKey: 'loading',
      update: data => data.feed
    })
  },
  data() {
    return {
      messages: null,
      loading: 0
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

#### Basic mutation

For the given operation:

```graphql
mutation CreateMessage($text: String!) {
  createMessage(text: $text) {
    id
  }
}
```

We can use the generated code like this:

```vue
<template>
  <div>
    <textarea v-model="text"></textarea>
    <button @click="send">Send Message</button>
  </div>
</template>

<script lang="ts">
import { createMessageMutation } from '../generated/graphqlOperations'

export default {
  data() {
    return {
      text: ''
    }
  },
  async send() {
    const result = await createMessageMutation(this, {
      variables: {
        text: this.text
      }
    })

    if (!result.success || !result.data) {
      alert('Failed to create message')
      return
    }

    const messageId = result.data.createMessage.id
  }
}
</script>
```
