website/src/pages/plugins/typescript/typescript-apollo-angular.mdx, before:

---
title: typescript-apollo-angular
---

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'
import { PluginApiDocs, PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<PluginHeader hasOperationsNote />
<PluginApiDocs />

## How to use?

Simply create a `.graphql` file and write a random query like so:

```graphql
query MyFeed {
  feed {
    id
    commentCount
  }
}
```

Using `graphql-codegen` you can generate a file with Angular services that you can use when coding an Angular component:

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  // ...
  generates: {
    'path/to/output.ts': {
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-operations', 'typescript-apollo-angular']
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

Then, use it:

```ts
import { MyFeedGQL, MyFeedQuery } from './graphql'
// BE SURE TO USE Observable from rxjs and not from @apollo/client/core when using map
import { Observable } from 'rxjs'
import { map } from 'rxjs/operators'

@Component({
  selector: 'feed',
  template: `
    <h1>Feed:</h1>
    <ul>
      <li *ngFor="let item of feed | async">{{ item.id }}</li>
    </ul>
  `
})
export class FeedComponent {
  feed: Observable<MyFeedQuery['feed']>

  constructor(feedGQL: MyFeedGQL) {
    this.feed = feedGQL.watch().valueChanges.pipe(map(result => result.data.feed))
  }
}
```

#### `@NgModule` directive

All generated services are defined with `@Injectable({ providedIn: 'root' }){:ts}` and in most cases you don't need to overwrite it, because providing a service to the root injector is highly recommended. To customize that behavior you can use `@NgModule` directive, anywhere in an operation, to let the codegen know which injector should it use to create a service.

<Callout>You can't use multiple `@NgModule` directives in the same operation</Callout>

```graphql
query feed {
  feed @NgModule(module: "./feed/feed.module#FeedModule") {
    id
    title
  }
}
```

#### `@namedClient` directive

Sometimes you end up with multiple Apollo clients, which means part of operations can't use the defaults. In order to customize that behavior you simply attach the `@namedClient` directive and the `typescript-apollo-angular` plugin takes care of the rest.

<Callout>You can't use multiple `@namedClient` directives in the same operation</Callout>

```graphql
query feed {
  feed @namedClient(name: "custom") {
    id
    title
  }
}
```

Commit message:

SEO: add `description` to docs (#9168)
* SEO: add `description` to docs

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

* prettier

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

website/src/pages/plugins/typescript/typescript-apollo-angular.mdx, after:

---
title: typescript-apollo-angular
description: GraphQL Code Generator plugin for Angular services using Apollo Angular. It generates Angular services with observables and typed variables.
---

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'
import { PluginApiDocs, PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<PluginHeader hasOperationsNote />
<PluginApiDocs />

## How to use?

Simply create a `.graphql` file and write a random query like so:

```graphql
query MyFeed {
  feed {
    id
    commentCount
  }
}
```

Using `graphql-codegen` you can generate a file with Angular services that you can use when coding an Angular component:

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  // ...
  generates: {
    'path/to/output.ts': {
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-operations', 'typescript-apollo-angular']
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

Then, use it:

```ts
import { MyFeedGQL, MyFeedQuery } from './graphql'
// BE SURE TO USE Observable from rxjs and not from @apollo/client/core when using map
import { Observable } from 'rxjs'
import { map } from 'rxjs/operators'

@Component({
  selector: 'feed',
  template: `
    <h1>Feed:</h1>
    <ul>
      <li *ngFor="let item of feed | async">{{ item.id }}</li>
    </ul>
  `
})
export class FeedComponent {
  feed: Observable<MyFeedQuery['feed']>

  constructor(feedGQL: MyFeedGQL) {
    this.feed = feedGQL.watch().valueChanges.pipe(map(result => result.data.feed))
  }
}
```

#### `@NgModule` directive

All generated services are defined with `@Injectable({ providedIn: 'root' }){:ts}` and in most cases you don't need to overwrite it, because providing a service to the root injector is highly recommended. To customize that behavior you can use `@NgModule` directive, anywhere in an operation, to let the codegen know which injector should it use to create a service.

<Callout>You can't use multiple `@NgModule` directives in the same operation</Callout>

```graphql
query feed {
  feed @NgModule(module: "./feed/feed.module#FeedModule") {
    id
    title
  }
}
```

#### `@namedClient` directive

Sometimes you end up with multiple Apollo clients, which means part of operations can't use the defaults. In order to customize that behavior you simply attach the `@namedClient` directive and the `typescript-apollo-angular` plugin takes care of the rest.

<Callout>You can't use multiple `@namedClient` directives in the same operation</Callout>

```graphql
query feed {
  feed @namedClient(name: "custom") {
    id
    title
  }
}
```
