website/src/pages/plugins/typescript/typescript-mongodb.mdx, before:

---
title: typescript-mongodb
---

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'
import { PluginApiDocs, PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<PluginHeader isDev={false} />

<Callout type="warning">
  Don't install this plugin as `devDependency`, because you need to import the directives from it.
</Callout>

This plugin generates TypeScript types for MongoDB models, which makes it relevant for server-side development only. It uses GraphQL directives to declare the types you want to generate and use in your MongoDB backend.

### What this plugin does?

Given the following GraphQL declaration:

```graphql
type User @entity {
  id: String @id
  username: String! @column
  email: String @column
}
```

We can have the following TypeScript output:

```ts
import { ObjectId } from 'mongodb'

export interface UserDbObject {
  _id: ObjectId
  username: string
  email?: string | null
}
```

This interface can be used for db read/write purposes, thus making communication with the db much more consistent.

<PluginApiDocs />

## Usage Example

Once installed, add the directives' declaration to your GraphQL Schema definition:

```ts
import { makeExecutableSchema } from '@graphql-tools/schema'
import { DIRECTIVES } from '@graphql-codegen/typescript-mongodb'

const schema = makeExecutableSchema({
  typeDefs: [
    DIRECTIVES
    // the rest of your GraphQL types
  ],
  resolvers
})
```

And generate code using `gql-gen`:

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: './src/my-schema.js',
  require: ['ts-node/register'],
  generates: {
    './src/generated/graphql.ts': {
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-mongodb']
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

At this point, you can add the directives to your GraphQL definitions, and generate your MongoDB models file.

## Directives

#### `@entity(additionalFields: [AdditionalEntityFields])` (on `OBJECT`)

Use this directive to specify which GraphQL type should have generated MongoDB models.

- `embedded: Boolean` - use this option to declare target entity as child of a greater entity. For example, given the following structure `{ _id: string, username: string, profile: { name: string }}`, the GraphQL type `Profile` should be declared as embedded.
- `additionalFields: [AdditionalEntityFields]` - specify any additional fields that you would like to add to your MongoDB object, and are not a part of your public GraphQL schema.

```graphql
type User
  @entity(
    additionalFields: [
      { path: "services.login.token", type: "string" }
      { path: "services.login.refreshToken?", type: "string" }
    ]
  ) {
  id: String @id
  email: String @column
}
```

#### `@column(overrideType: String)` (on `FIELD_DEFINITION`)

Use this directive to declare a specific GraphQL field as part of your generated MongoDB type.

- `overrideType: String` - use this to override the type of the field; for example, if you store dates as `Date` but expose them as `String`.

<Callout type="warning">If target property is an embedded entity, you should use `@embedded` instead.</Callout>

#### `@id` (on `FIELD_DEFINITION`)

Use this directive on the filed that should be mapped to a MongoDB `_id`. By default, it should be the `id` field of the GraphQL `type`.

#### `@link` (on `FIELD_DEFINITION`)

Use this directive to declare that a specific field is a link to another type in another table. This will use the `ObjectId` type in the generated result.

#### `@embedded` (on `FIELD_DEFINITION`)

use this option to declare target entity as child of a greater entity.

#### `@map(path: String)` (on `FIELD_DEFINITION`)

Use this directive to override the path or the name of the target field. This would come in handy whenever we would like to create a more complex object structure in the database;
for example, if you wish to project a field as `username` on your schema, but store it as `credentials.username` in your DB.
You can either specify the name of the field, or a path to which will lead to its corresponding field in the DB.

Given the following GraphQL schema:

```graphql
type User @entity {
  username: String @column @map(path: "credentials.username")
}
```

The output should be:

```ts
export interface UserDbObject {
  credentials: {
    username: string
  }
}
```

#### `@abstractEntity(discriminatorField: String!)` (on `INTERFACE`)

Use this directive on a GraphQL interface to mark it as a basis for other database types.
The `discriminatorField` argument is mandatory and will tell the generator what field name in the database determines what interface the target object is implementing.

For example:

```graphql
interface BaseNotification @abstractEntity(discriminatorField: "notificationType") {
  id: ID! @id
  createdAt: String! @column(overrideType: "Date")
}

type TextNotification implements BaseNotification @entity {
  id: ID!
  createdAt: String!
  content: String! @column
}
```

This way, you will get:

```ts
export interface BaseNotificationDbInterface {
  notificationType: string
  _id: ObjectId
  createdAt: Date
}

export interface TextNotificationDbObject extends BaseNotificationDbInterface {
  content: string
}
```

#### `@union(discriminatorField: String)` (on `UNION`)

This directive is similar to `@abstractEntity`, but for unions (that don't necessarily have any common fields).
The `discriminatorField` argument is mandatory and will tell the generator what field name in the database determines what interface the target object is implementing.

Given the following GraphQL schema:

```graphql
type A @entity {
  fieldA: String @column
}

type B @entity {
  fieldB: String @column
}

union PossibleType @union(discriminatorField: "entityType") = A | B
```

The output should be:

```ts
export interface ADbObject {
  fieldA: string
}

export interface BDbObject {
  fieldB: string
}

export type PossibleType = { entityType: string } & (ADbObject | BDbObject)
```

## Example

Given the following GraphQL types:

```graphql
type User @entity {
  id: String! @id
  username: String! @column
  email: String! @column
  profile: Profile! @embedded
  friendsCount: Int! # this field won't get a generated MongoDB field
  friends: [User]! @link
}

type Profile @entity(embedded: true) {
  name: String! @column
  age: Int! @column
}
```

The generated MongoDB models should look like so:

```ts
import { ObjectId } from 'mongodb'

export interface UserDbObject {
  _id: ObjectId
  username: string
  email: string
  profile: ProfileDbObject
  friends: ObjectId[]
}

export interface ProfileDbObject {
  name: string
  age: string
}
```

Commit message:

SEO: add `description` to docs (#9168)
* SEO: add `description` to docs

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

* prettier

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

website/src/pages/plugins/typescript/typescript-mongodb.mdx, after:

---
title: typescript-mongodb
description: GraphQL Code Generator plugin for generating TypeScript types for MongoDB models. This plugin generates TypeScript types for MongoDB models, which makes it relevant for server-side development only. It uses GraphQL directives to declare the types you want to generate and use in your MongoDB backend.
---

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'
import { PluginApiDocs, PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<PluginHeader isDev={false} />

<Callout type="warning">
  Don't install this plugin as `devDependency`, because you need to import the directives from it.
</Callout>

This plugin generates TypeScript types for MongoDB models, which makes it relevant for server-side development only. It uses GraphQL directives to declare the types you want to generate and use in your MongoDB backend.

### What this plugin does?

Given the following GraphQL declaration:

```graphql
type User @entity {
  id: String @id
  username: String! @column
  email: String @column
}
```

We can have the following TypeScript output:

```ts
import { ObjectId } from 'mongodb'

export interface UserDbObject {
  _id: ObjectId
  username: string
  email?: string | null
}
```

This interface can be used for db read/write purposes, thus making communication with the db much more consistent.

<PluginApiDocs />

## Usage Example

Once installed, add the directives' declaration to your GraphQL Schema definition:

```ts
import { makeExecutableSchema } from '@graphql-tools/schema'
import { DIRECTIVES } from '@graphql-codegen/typescript-mongodb'

const schema = makeExecutableSchema({
  typeDefs: [
    DIRECTIVES
    // the rest of your GraphQL types
  ],
  resolvers
})
```

And generate code using `gql-gen`:

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: './src/my-schema.js',
  require: ['ts-node/register'],
  generates: {
    './src/generated/graphql.ts': {
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-mongodb']
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

At this point, you can add the directives to your GraphQL definitions, and generate your MongoDB models file.

## Directives

#### `@entity(additionalFields: [AdditionalEntityFields])` (on `OBJECT`)

Use this directive to specify which GraphQL type should have generated MongoDB models.

- `embedded: Boolean` - use this option to declare target entity as child of a greater entity. For example, given the following structure `{ _id: string, username: string, profile: { name: string }}`, the GraphQL type `Profile` should be declared as embedded.
- `additionalFields: [AdditionalEntityFields]` - specify any additional fields that you would like to add to your MongoDB object, and are not a part of your public GraphQL schema.

```graphql
type User
  @entity(
    additionalFields: [
      { path: "services.login.token", type: "string" }
      { path: "services.login.refreshToken?", type: "string" }
    ]
  ) {
  id: String @id
  email: String @column
}
```

#### `@column(overrideType: String)` (on `FIELD_DEFINITION`)

Use this directive to declare a specific GraphQL field as part of your generated MongoDB type.

- `overrideType: String` - use this to override the type of the field; for example, if you store dates as `Date` but expose them as `String`.

<Callout type="warning">If target property is an embedded entity, you should use `@embedded` instead.</Callout>

#### `@id` (on `FIELD_DEFINITION`)

Use this directive on the filed that should be mapped to a MongoDB `_id`. By default, it should be the `id` field of the GraphQL `type`.

#### `@link` (on `FIELD_DEFINITION`)

Use this directive to declare that a specific field is a link to another type in another table. This will use the `ObjectId` type in the generated result.

#### `@embedded` (on `FIELD_DEFINITION`)

use this option to declare target entity as child of a greater entity.

#### `@map(path: String)` (on `FIELD_DEFINITION`)

Use this directive to override the path or the name of the target field. This would come in handy whenever we would like to create a more complex object structure in the database;
for example, if you wish to project a field as `username` on your schema, but store it as `credentials.username` in your DB.
You can either specify the name of the field, or a path to which will lead to its corresponding field in the DB.

Given the following GraphQL schema:

```graphql
type User @entity {
  username: String @column @map(path: "credentials.username")
}
```

The output should be:

```ts
export interface UserDbObject {
  credentials: {
    username: string
  }
}
```

#### `@abstractEntity(discriminatorField: String!)` (on `INTERFACE`)

Use this directive on a GraphQL interface to mark it as a basis for other database types.
The `discriminatorField` argument is mandatory and will tell the generator what field name in the database determines what interface the target object is implementing.

For example:

```graphql
interface BaseNotification @abstractEntity(discriminatorField: "notificationType") {
  id: ID! @id
  createdAt: String! @column(overrideType: "Date")
}

type TextNotification implements BaseNotification @entity {
  id: ID!
  createdAt: String!
  content: String! @column
}
```

This way, you will get:

```ts
export interface BaseNotificationDbInterface {
  notificationType: string
  _id: ObjectId
  createdAt: Date
}

export interface TextNotificationDbObject extends BaseNotificationDbInterface {
  content: string
}
```

#### `@union(discriminatorField: String)` (on `UNION`)

This directive is similar to `@abstractEntity`, but for unions (that don't necessarily have any common fields).
The `discriminatorField` argument is mandatory and will tell the generator what field name in the database determines what interface the target object is implementing.

Given the following GraphQL schema:

```graphql
type A @entity {
  fieldA: String @column
}

type B @entity {
  fieldB: String @column
}

union PossibleType @union(discriminatorField: "entityType") = A | B
```

The output should be:

```ts
export interface ADbObject {
  fieldA: string
}

export interface BDbObject {
  fieldB: string
}

export type PossibleType = { entityType: string } & (ADbObject | BDbObject)
```

## Example

Given the following GraphQL types:

```graphql
type User @entity {
  id: String! @id
  username: String! @column
  email: String! @column
  profile: Profile! @embedded
  friendsCount: Int! # this field won't get a generated MongoDB field
  friends: [User]! @link
}

type Profile @entity(embedded: true) {
  name: String! @column
  age: Int! @column
}
```

The generated MongoDB models should look like so:

```ts
import { ObjectId } from 'mongodb'

export interface UserDbObject {
  _id: ObjectId
  username: string
  email: string
  profile: ProfileDbObject
  friends: ObjectId[]
}

export interface ProfileDbObject {
  name: string
  age: string
}
```
