website/src/pages/plugins/typescript/typescript-resolvers.mdx, before:

---
title: typescript-resolvers
---

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'
import { PluginApiDocs, PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<PluginHeader hasOperationsNote />

<Callout>
  Watch [Episode #26 of `graphql.wtf`](https://graphql.wtf/episodes/26-type-safe-resolvers-with-graphql-code-generator)
  for a quick introduction to this plugin and its features:
</Callout>

<iframe src="https://youtube.com/embed/tHMaNmqPIC4" />

<Callout>
  [More weekly episodes are available in `graphql.wtf`](https://graphql.wtf/) by [Jamie
  Barton](https://twitter.com/notrab).
</Callout>

<PluginApiDocs />

## Usage Example

<Callout>
**Quick Start with `typescript-resolvers`**

You can find [a blog post we wrote about using and customizing this plugin here](https://the-guild.dev/blog/better-type-safety-for-resolvers-with-graphql-codegen)

</Callout>

Run `graphql-codegen` as usual, with this new plugin:

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.json',
  generates: {
    './src/resolvers-types.ts': {
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-resolvers']
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

Import the types from the generated file and use in the resolver:

```ts
import { Resolvers } from './resolvers-types'

export const resolvers: Resolvers = {
  Query: {
    myQuery: (root, args, context) => {}
  }
}
```

This will make the resolver fully typed and compatible with typescript compiler, including the handler's arguments and return value.

Generated resolvers can be passed directly into [graphql-tools](https://npmjs.com/package/graphql-tools) `makeExecutableSchema` function.

## Integration with Apollo-Server

By default `apollo-server` will not work with generated resolvers signature.

If you are using Apollo Server with TypeScript, note that you need to set `useIndexSignature: true` in your config, in order to add a compatible index signature ([more info](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/issues/1133#issuecomment-456812621)).

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  generates: {
    './resolvers-types.ts': {
      config: {
        useIndexSignature: true
      },
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-resolvers']
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

If you wish to have an easy start, and have the ability to use resolvers chaining without models types, you can also add to your config `defaultMapper: Partial<{T}>`. This will allow you to return partial types in your resolvers.

## Use Your Model Types (`mappers`)

If you wish to use your custom model types, codegen allow you to use `mappers` feature to map GraphQL types to your custom model types. [You can find an article explaining how to use `mappers` here](https://the-guild.dev/blog/better-type-safety-for-resolvers-with-graphql-codegen).

Here's the basic example of using it:

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.graphql',
  generates: {
    './resolvers-types.ts': {
      config: {
        contextType: 'models#MyContextType',
        mappers: {
          User: './models#UserModel',
          Profile: './models#UserProfile'
        }
      },
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-resolvers']
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

## Enum Resolvers

[Apollo-Server](https://apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server) and schemas built with [`graphql-tools`](https://graphql-tools.com) supports creating resolvers for GraphQL `enum`s.

This is helpful because you can have internal values that are different from the public enum values, and you can use the internal values in your resolvers.

Codegen allows you to specify either `mappers` or `enumValues` to map enums in your resolvers, and if you are using it for enums, you'll get a resolver signature for the enum resolvers as well.

### Usage Example

With the following schema:

```graphql
type Query {
  favoriteColor: Color!
}

enum Color {
  RED
  BLUE
}
```

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.graphql',
  generates: {
    './resolvers-types.ts': {
      config: {
        enumValues: {
          Color: './enums#ColorsCode'
        }
      },
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-resolvers']
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

```ts filename="enums.ts"
export enum ColorsCode {
  MY_RED = '#FF0000',
  MY_BLUE = '#0000FF'
}
```

```ts filename="resolvers.ts"
import { Resolvers } from './resolvers-types'
import { ColorsCode } from './enums'

const resolvers: Resolvers = {
  Color: {
    RED: ColorsCode.MY_RED,
    BLUE: ColorsCode.MY_BLUE
  },
  Query: {
    favoriteColor: () => ColorsCode.MY_RED // Now you cn return this, and it will be mapped to your actual GraphQL enum
  }
}
```

You can also define the same with explicit enum values:

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.graphql',
  generates: {
    './resolvers-types.ts': {
      config: {
        enumValues: {
          Color: {
            RED: '#FF0000',
            BLUE: '#0000FF'
          }
        }
      },
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-resolvers']
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

Or, with `mappers`:

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.graphql',
  generates: {
    './resolvers-types.ts': {
      config: {
        mappers: {
          Color: './enums#ColorsCode'
        }
      },
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-resolvers']
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

## Defined shared mappers across configurations

In some case, you might want to share some common `mappers` between many output file configurations.

To do so, you can leverage the YAML references features as follow:

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const sharedMappers = {
  ID: 'IDType'
}

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.graphql',
  documents: 'src/*.ts',
  generates: {
    'resolvers-types-1.ts': {
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-resolvers'],
      config: {
        mappers: {
          ...sharedMappers,
          String: 'StringType'
        }
      }
    },
    'resolvers-types-2.ts': {
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-resolvers'],
      config: {
        mappers: {
          ...sharedMappers,
          String: 'StringType'
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

The above configuration will provide the ID type mapping to both `resolvers-types-1.ts` and `resolvers-types-2.ts` files.

The complete example is available here: [codegen-repros/reusable-mappers](https://github.com/charlypoly/codegen-repros/blob/master/reusable-mappers/codegen.yml)

You can also achieve a similar reusable mappers configuration by providing a TypeScript or JavaScript file configuration.

Commit message:

SEO: add `description` to docs
Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

website/src/pages/plugins/typescript/typescript-resolvers.mdx, after:

---
title: typescript-resolvers
description: Generate TypeScript resolvers types. Works with graphql-tools and apollo-server. Supports custom mappers and enum resolvers.
---

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'
import { PluginApiDocs, PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<PluginHeader hasOperationsNote />

<Callout>
  Watch [Episode #26 of `graphql.wtf`](https://graphql.wtf/episodes/26-type-safe-resolvers-with-graphql-code-generator)
  for a quick introduction to this plugin and its features:
</Callout>

<iframe src="https://youtube.com/embed/tHMaNmqPIC4" />

<Callout>
  [More weekly episodes are available in `graphql.wtf`](https://graphql.wtf/) by [Jamie
  Barton](https://twitter.com/notrab).
</Callout>

<PluginApiDocs />

## Usage Example

<Callout>
**Quick Start with `typescript-resolvers`**

You can find [a blog post we wrote about using and customizing this plugin here](https://the-guild.dev/blog/better-type-safety-for-resolvers-with-graphql-codegen)

</Callout>

Run `graphql-codegen` as usual, with this new plugin:

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.json',
  generates: {
    './src/resolvers-types.ts': {
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-resolvers']
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

Import the types from the generated file and use in the resolver:

```ts
import { Resolvers } from './resolvers-types'

export const resolvers: Resolvers = {
  Query: {
    myQuery: (root, args, context) => {}
  }
}
```

This will make the resolver fully typed and compatible with typescript compiler, including the handler's arguments and return value.

Generated resolvers can be passed directly into [graphql-tools](https://npmjs.com/package/graphql-tools) `makeExecutableSchema` function.

## Integration with Apollo-Server

By default `apollo-server` will not work with generated resolvers signature.

If you are using Apollo Server with TypeScript, note that you need to set `useIndexSignature: true` in your config, in order to add a compatible index signature ([more info](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/issues/1133#issuecomment-456812621)).

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  generates: {
    './resolvers-types.ts': {
      config: {
        useIndexSignature: true
      },
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-resolvers']
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

If you wish to have an easy start, and have the ability to use resolvers chaining without models types, you can also add to your config `defaultMapper: Partial<{T}>`. This will allow you to return partial types in your resolvers.

## Use Your Model Types (`mappers`)

If you wish to use your custom model types, codegen allow you to use `mappers` feature to map GraphQL types to your custom model types. [You can find an article explaining how to use `mappers` here](https://the-guild.dev/blog/better-type-safety-for-resolvers-with-graphql-codegen).

Here's the basic example of using it:

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.graphql',
  generates: {
    './resolvers-types.ts': {
      config: {
        contextType: 'models#MyContextType',
        mappers: {
          User: './models#UserModel',
          Profile: './models#UserProfile'
        }
      },
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-resolvers']
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

## Enum Resolvers

[Apollo-Server](https://apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server) and schemas built with [`graphql-tools`](https://graphql-tools.com) supports creating resolvers for GraphQL `enum`s.

This is helpful because you can have internal values that are different from the public enum values, and you can use the internal values in your resolvers.

Codegen allows you to specify either `mappers` or `enumValues` to map enums in your resolvers, and if you are using it for enums, you'll get a resolver signature for the enum resolvers as well.

### Usage Example

With the following schema:

```graphql
type Query {
  favoriteColor: Color!
}

enum Color {
  RED
  BLUE
}
```

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.graphql',
  generates: {
    './resolvers-types.ts': {
      config: {
        enumValues: {
          Color: './enums#ColorsCode'
        }
      },
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-resolvers']
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

```ts filename="enums.ts"
export enum ColorsCode {
  MY_RED = '#FF0000',
  MY_BLUE = '#0000FF'
}
```

```ts filename="resolvers.ts"
import { Resolvers } from './resolvers-types'
import { ColorsCode } from './enums'

const resolvers: Resolvers = {
  Color: {
    RED: ColorsCode.MY_RED,
    BLUE: ColorsCode.MY_BLUE
  },
  Query: {
    favoriteColor: () => ColorsCode.MY_RED // Now you cn return this, and it will be mapped to your actual GraphQL enum
  }
}
```

You can also define the same with explicit enum values:

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.graphql',
  generates: {
    './resolvers-types.ts': {
      config: {
        enumValues: {
          Color: {
            RED: '#FF0000',
            BLUE: '#0000FF'
          }
        }
      },
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-resolvers']
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

Or, with `mappers`:

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.graphql',
  generates: {
    './resolvers-types.ts': {
      config: {
        mappers: {
          Color: './enums#ColorsCode'
        }
      },
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-resolvers']
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

## Defined shared mappers across configurations

In some case, you might want to share some common `mappers` between many output file configurations.

To do so, you can leverage the YAML references features as follow:

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const sharedMappers = {
  ID: 'IDType'
}

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'schema.graphql',
  documents: 'src/*.ts',
  generates: {
    'resolvers-types-1.ts': {
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-resolvers'],
      config: {
        mappers: {
          ...sharedMappers,
          String: 'StringType'
        }
      }
    },
    'resolvers-types-2.ts': {
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-resolvers'],
      config: {
        mappers: {
          ...sharedMappers,
          String: 'StringType'
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

The above configuration will provide the ID type mapping to both `resolvers-types-1.ts` and `resolvers-types-2.ts` files.

The complete example is available here: [codegen-repros/reusable-mappers](https://github.com/charlypoly/codegen-repros/blob/master/reusable-mappers/codegen.yml)

You can also achieve a similar reusable mappers configuration by providing a TypeScript or JavaScript file configuration.
