website/src/pages/plugins/typescript/typescript-rtk-query.mdx, before:

---
title: typescript-rtk-query
---

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'
import { PluginApiDocs, PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<PluginHeader hasOperationsNote />
<PluginApiDocs />

## Usage Examples

<Callout>
  Note: this plugin just injects new endpoints into an existing API you created with `createApi`, so you still have to
  define that - but also have all freedom on how to do that.
</Callout>

### Using `graphql-request`

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'MY_SCHEMA_PATH',
  documents: './src/**/*.graphql',
  generates: {
    './src/app/api/generated.ts': {
      plugins: [
        'typescript',
        'typescript-operations',
        {
          'typescript-rtk-query': {
            importBaseApiFrom: 'src/app/api/baseApi',
            exportHooks: true
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

The generated `src/app/api/generated.ts` would try to `import { api } from 'src/app/api/baseApi'{:ts}`, so you have to create that file:

```ts filename="src/app/api/baseApi.ts" {7-10}
import { createApi } from '@reduxjs/toolkit/query/react'
import { graphqlRequestBaseQuery } from '@rtk-query/graphql-request-base-query'
import { GraphQLClient } from 'graphql-request'

export const client = new GraphQLClient('/graphql')

export const api = createApi({
  baseQuery: graphqlRequestBaseQuery({ client }),
  endpoints: () => ({})
})
```

From that point on, you can import the generated hooks from `src/app/api/generated.ts`:

```ts filename="src/components/MyComponent.ts" {4}
import { useMyQuery } from 'src/app/api/generated'

export const MyComponent = () => {
  const { data, isLoading } = useMyQuery({ page: 5 })
}
```

### Extending generated code

You can import the generated code into a new file and use `api.enhanceEndpoints{:ts}` to add lifecycle hooks or `providesTags`/`invalidatedTags` information to your api:

```ts filename="src/аpp/api/enhanced.ts"
import { api as generatedApi } from 'src/app/api/generated'

export const api = generatedApi.enhanceEndpoints({
  addTagTypes: ['User'],
  endpoints: {
    GetUserById: {
      providesTags: (result, error, arg) => [{ type: 'User', id: arg.userId }]
    }
  }
})

export const { useGetUserByIdQuery } = api
```

Make sure that this file is referenced from your code so that the enhanced endpoints are usable. The easiest way to do this is to re-export the hooks in this file and import them exclusively from it.

#### Setting an authentication header after a Mutation

You can also use this to set an "authentication" header after a login mutation:

```ts {7-10}
import { api as generatedApi } from 'src/app/api/generated'
import { client } from 'src/app/api/baseApi'

export const api = generatedApi.enhanceEndpoints({
  endpoints: {
    Login: {
      async onQueryStarted(arg, { queryFulfilled }) {
        const { data } = await queryFulfilled
        client.setHeader('authentication', `Bearer ${data.token}`)
      }
    }
  }
})

export const { useLoginMutation } = api
```

Commit message:

SEO: add `description` to docs (#9168)
* SEO: add `description` to docs

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

* prettier

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

website/src/pages/plugins/typescript/typescript-rtk-query.mdx, after:

---
title: typescript-rtk-query
description: RTK Query codegen plugin for GraphQL. Generates React Hooks for GraphQL queries and mutations. Works with any GraphQL client.
---

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'
import { PluginApiDocs, PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<PluginHeader hasOperationsNote />
<PluginApiDocs />

## Usage Examples

<Callout>
  Note: this plugin just injects new endpoints into an existing API you created with `createApi`, so you still have to
  define that - but also have all freedom on how to do that.
</Callout>

### Using `graphql-request`

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'MY_SCHEMA_PATH',
  documents: './src/**/*.graphql',
  generates: {
    './src/app/api/generated.ts': {
      plugins: [
        'typescript',
        'typescript-operations',
        {
          'typescript-rtk-query': {
            importBaseApiFrom: 'src/app/api/baseApi',
            exportHooks: true
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

The generated `src/app/api/generated.ts` would try to `import { api } from 'src/app/api/baseApi'{:ts}`, so you have to create that file:

```ts filename="src/app/api/baseApi.ts" {7-10}
import { createApi } from '@reduxjs/toolkit/query/react'
import { graphqlRequestBaseQuery } from '@rtk-query/graphql-request-base-query'
import { GraphQLClient } from 'graphql-request'

export const client = new GraphQLClient('/graphql')

export const api = createApi({
  baseQuery: graphqlRequestBaseQuery({ client }),
  endpoints: () => ({})
})
```

From that point on, you can import the generated hooks from `src/app/api/generated.ts`:

```ts filename="src/components/MyComponent.ts" {4}
import { useMyQuery } from 'src/app/api/generated'

export const MyComponent = () => {
  const { data, isLoading } = useMyQuery({ page: 5 })
}
```

### Extending generated code

You can import the generated code into a new file and use `api.enhanceEndpoints{:ts}` to add lifecycle hooks or `providesTags`/`invalidatedTags` information to your api:

```ts filename="src/аpp/api/enhanced.ts"
import { api as generatedApi } from 'src/app/api/generated'

export const api = generatedApi.enhanceEndpoints({
  addTagTypes: ['User'],
  endpoints: {
    GetUserById: {
      providesTags: (result, error, arg) => [{ type: 'User', id: arg.userId }]
    }
  }
})

export const { useGetUserByIdQuery } = api
```

Make sure that this file is referenced from your code so that the enhanced endpoints are usable. The easiest way to do this is to re-export the hooks in this file and import them exclusively from it.

#### Setting an authentication header after a Mutation

You can also use this to set an "authentication" header after a login mutation:

```ts {7-10}
import { api as generatedApi } from 'src/app/api/generated'
import { client } from 'src/app/api/baseApi'

export const api = generatedApi.enhanceEndpoints({
  endpoints: {
    Login: {
      async onQueryStarted(arg, { queryFulfilled }) {
        const { data } = await queryFulfilled
        client.setHeader('authentication', `Bearer ${data.token}`)
      }
    }
  }
})

export const { useLoginMutation } = api
```
