website/src/pages/plugins/typescript/typed-document-node.mdx, before:

---
title: typed-document-node
---

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'
import { PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<Callout>
For new projects, we recommend using the [`client-preset`](/plugins/presets/preset-client), which uses `typed-document-node` under the hood.

</Callout>

<PluginHeader hasOperationsNote />

These plugins generate a ready-to-use `TypedDocumentNode` (a combination of pre-compiled `DocumentNode` and the TypeScript signature it represents).

With the `typed-document-node` plugin you no longer need to reconfigure, and install different GraphQL Code Generator plugins to manage all your GraphQL client hooks. Generate a single `TypedDocumentNode` and pass it to your GraphQL client of choice.

This plugin also generates less boilerplate code for your GraphQL operations.

<Callout>
  Watch [Episode #41 of `graphql.wtf`](https://graphql.wtf/episodes/41-typed-document-node) for a quick introduction to
  using this plugin with GraphQL Code Generator:
</Callout>

<iframe src="https://youtube.com/embed/cYIhx8dusa4" title="Typed Document Node with GraphQL Code Generator" />

### Usage example

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'SCHEMA_FILE_OR_ENDPOINT_HERE',
  documents: './src/**/*.graphql',
  generates: {
    './src/graphql-operations.ts': {
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-operations', 'typed-document-node']
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

The example about will generate `TypedDocumentNode` with the needed types built-in, for example:

```ts
// Represents the variables type of the operation - generated by `typescript` + `typescript-operations` plugins
export type RatesQueryVariables = Exact<{
  currency: Scalars['String'];
}>;

// Represents the result type of the operation - generated by `typescript` + `typescript-operations` plugins
export type RatesQuery = (
  { __typename?: 'Query' }
  & {
  rates?: Maybe<Array<Maybe<(
    { __typename?: 'ExchangeRate' }
    & Pick<ExchangeRate, 'currency' | 'rate'>
    )>>>
}
  )

// Generated by this plugin - creates a pre-compiled `DocumentNode` and passes result type and variables type as generics
export const ratesQuery: TypedDocumentNode<RatesQuery, RatesQueryVariables> = {
  kind: 'Document',
  definitions: [
    {
      kind: 'OperationDefinition',
      operation: 'query',
      name: { ... }
    }
  ]
}
```

<Callout>This plugin also requires `typescript` and `typescript-operations`.</Callout>

For information about the setup and usage of `TypedDocumentNode`, [please refer to the library's documentation](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-typed-document-node).

Commit message:

SEO: add `description` to docs (#9168)
* SEO: add `description` to docs

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

* prettier

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

website/src/pages/plugins/typescript/typed-document-node.mdx, after:

---
title: typed-document-node
description: Generate TypedDocumentNode for GraphQL operations. This plugin is a wrapper for graphql-typed-document-node.
---

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'
import { PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<Callout>
For new projects, we recommend using the [`client-preset`](/plugins/presets/preset-client), which uses `typed-document-node` under the hood.

</Callout>

<PluginHeader hasOperationsNote />

These plugins generate a ready-to-use `TypedDocumentNode` (a combination of pre-compiled `DocumentNode` and the TypeScript signature it represents).

With the `typed-document-node` plugin you no longer need to reconfigure, and install different GraphQL Code Generator plugins to manage all your GraphQL client hooks. Generate a single `TypedDocumentNode` and pass it to your GraphQL client of choice.

This plugin also generates less boilerplate code for your GraphQL operations.

<Callout>
  Watch [Episode #41 of `graphql.wtf`](https://graphql.wtf/episodes/41-typed-document-node) for a quick introduction to
  using this plugin with GraphQL Code Generator:
</Callout>

<iframe src="https://youtube.com/embed/cYIhx8dusa4" title="Typed Document Node with GraphQL Code Generator" />

### Usage example

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'SCHEMA_FILE_OR_ENDPOINT_HERE',
  documents: './src/**/*.graphql',
  generates: {
    './src/graphql-operations.ts': {
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-operations', 'typed-document-node']
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

The example about will generate `TypedDocumentNode` with the needed types built-in, for example:

```ts
// Represents the variables type of the operation - generated by `typescript` + `typescript-operations` plugins
export type RatesQueryVariables = Exact<{
  currency: Scalars['String'];
}>;

// Represents the result type of the operation - generated by `typescript` + `typescript-operations` plugins
export type RatesQuery = (
  { __typename?: 'Query' }
  & {
  rates?: Maybe<Array<Maybe<(
    { __typename?: 'ExchangeRate' }
    & Pick<ExchangeRate, 'currency' | 'rate'>
    )>>>
}
  )

// Generated by this plugin - creates a pre-compiled `DocumentNode` and passes result type and variables type as generics
export const ratesQuery: TypedDocumentNode<RatesQuery, RatesQueryVariables> = {
  kind: 'Document',
  definitions: [
    {
      kind: 'OperationDefinition',
      operation: 'query',
      name: { ... }
    }
  ]
}
```

<Callout>This plugin also requires `typescript` and `typescript-operations`.</Callout>

For information about the setup and usage of `TypedDocumentNode`, [please refer to the library's documentation](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-typed-document-node).
