website/src/pages/plugins/typescript/typescript-react-apollo.mdx, before:

---
title: typescript-react-apollo
---

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'
import { PluginApiDocs, PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<Callout type="info">

We now recommend using the `client-preset` package for a **better developer experience** and smaller impact on bundle size.

**Get started on [our "React/Vue" guide](/docs/guides/react-vue).**

</Callout>

<PluginHeader hasOperationsNote />
<PluginApiDocs />

## Usage Example

### With React Hooks

For the given input:

```graphql
query Test {
  feed {
    id
    commentCount
    repository {
      full_name
      html_url
      owner {
        avatar_url
      }
    }
  }
}
```

And the following configuration:

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'YOUR_SCHEMA_HERE',
  documents: './src/**/*.graphql',
  generates: {
    './generated-types.ts': {
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-operations', 'typescript-react-apollo']
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

Codegen will pre-compile the GraphQL operation into a `DocumentNode` object, and generate a ready-to-use React Hook for each operation you have.

In your application code, you can import it from the generated file, and use the React Hook in your component code:

```tsx
import { useTest } from './generated-types'

export const MyComponent: React.FC = () => {
  const { data, error, loading } = useTest()

  return <div>…</div>
}
```

### Generate Data Component

Codegen also supports generating data Components (deprecated in `@apollo/client` v3), you can turn it on this way:

```ts filename="codegen.ts" {10}
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'YOUR_SCHEMA_HERE',
  documents: './src/**/*.graphql',
  generates: {
    './generated-types.ts': {
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-operations', 'typescript-react-apollo'],
      config: {
        withComponent: true
      }
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

### Generate HOC

Codegen also supports generating High-Order-Components (deprecated in `@apollo/client` v3), you can turn it on this way:

```ts filename="codegen.ts" {10}
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'YOUR_SCHEMA_HERE',
  documents: './src/**/*.graphql',
  generates: {
    './generated-types.ts': {
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-operations', 'typescript-react-apollo'],
      config: {
        withHOC: true
      }
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

<Callout>
  Watch [Episode #29 of `graphql.wtf`](https://graphql.wtf/episodes/29-apollo-client-3-with-graphql-code-generator) for
  a quick introduction to using this plugin with GraphQL Code Generator:
</Callout>

<iframe src="https://youtube.com/embed/PYDGjTufGsk" />

Commit message:

SEO: add `description` to docs
Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

website/src/pages/plugins/typescript/typescript-react-apollo.mdx, after:

---
title: typescript-react-apollo
description: GraphQL Code Generator plugin for TypeScript and React Apollo. Generates React Hooks and HOCs for your GraphQL operations.
---

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'
import { PluginApiDocs, PluginHeader } from '@/components/plugin'
import { pluginGetStaticProps } from '@/lib/plugin-get-static-props'
export const getStaticProps = pluginGetStaticProps(__filename)

<Callout type="info">

We now recommend using the `client-preset` package for a **better developer experience** and smaller impact on bundle size.

**Get started on [our "React/Vue" guide](/docs/guides/react-vue).**

</Callout>

<PluginHeader hasOperationsNote />
<PluginApiDocs />

## Usage Example

### With React Hooks

For the given input:

```graphql
query Test {
  feed {
    id
    commentCount
    repository {
      full_name
      html_url
      owner {
        avatar_url
      }
    }
  }
}
```

And the following configuration:

```ts filename="codegen.ts"
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'YOUR_SCHEMA_HERE',
  documents: './src/**/*.graphql',
  generates: {
    './generated-types.ts': {
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-operations', 'typescript-react-apollo']
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

Codegen will pre-compile the GraphQL operation into a `DocumentNode` object, and generate a ready-to-use React Hook for each operation you have.

In your application code, you can import it from the generated file, and use the React Hook in your component code:

```tsx
import { useTest } from './generated-types'

export const MyComponent: React.FC = () => {
  const { data, error, loading } = useTest()

  return <div>…</div>
}
```

### Generate Data Component

Codegen also supports generating data Components (deprecated in `@apollo/client` v3), you can turn it on this way:

```ts filename="codegen.ts" {10}
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'YOUR_SCHEMA_HERE',
  documents: './src/**/*.graphql',
  generates: {
    './generated-types.ts': {
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-operations', 'typescript-react-apollo'],
      config: {
        withComponent: true
      }
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

### Generate HOC

Codegen also supports generating High-Order-Components (deprecated in `@apollo/client` v3), you can turn it on this way:

```ts filename="codegen.ts" {10}
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: 'YOUR_SCHEMA_HERE',
  documents: './src/**/*.graphql',
  generates: {
    './generated-types.ts': {
      plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-operations', 'typescript-react-apollo'],
      config: {
        withHOC: true
      }
    }
  }
}
export default config
```

<Callout>
  Watch [Episode #29 of `graphql.wtf`](https://graphql.wtf/episodes/29-apollo-client-3-with-graphql-code-generator) for
  a quick introduction to using this plugin with GraphQL Code Generator:
</Callout>

<iframe src="https://youtube.com/embed/PYDGjTufGsk" />
