website/src/pages/docs/custom-codegen/extend-schema.mdx, before:

# How to extend the GraphQL Schema?

Each plugin can also specify `addToSchema` field, and to extend the `GraphQLSchema` with more types:

```js {7-13}
module.exports = {
  plugin(schema, documents, config) {
    const typesMap = schema.getTypeMap()

    return Object.keys(typesMap).join('\n')
  },
  addToSchema: /* GraphQL */ `
    type MyType {
      field: String
    }

    directive @myDirective on OBJECT
  `
}
```

It's useful when you wish to add things like declarative `@directive` to your `GraphQLSchema`, which affects only the output of the codegen.

For example, let's add a custom `@directive` that tells the codegen to ignore a specific `type`:

```js
module.exports = {
  plugin(schema, documents, config, info) {
    const typesMap = schema.getTypeMap()

    return Object.keys(typesMap)
      .filter(typeName => {
        const type = typesMap[typeName]
        const { astNode } = type

        if (astNode?.directives?.find(d => d.name.value === 'ignore')) {
          return false
        }

        return true
      })
      .join('\n')
  },
  addToSchema: /* GraphQL */ `
    directive @ignore on OBJECT
  `
}
```

Commit message:

SEO: add `description` to docs
Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

website/src/pages/docs/custom-codegen/extend-schema.mdx, after:

---
description: Learn how to create a custom plugin for GraphQL Code Generator. How to extend the GraphQL Schema?
---

# How to extend the GraphQL Schema?

Each plugin can also specify `addToSchema` field, and to extend the `GraphQLSchema` with more types:

```js {7-13}
module.exports = {
  plugin(schema, documents, config) {
    const typesMap = schema.getTypeMap()

    return Object.keys(typesMap).join('\n')
  },
  addToSchema: /* GraphQL */ `
    type MyType {
      field: String
    }

    directive @myDirective on OBJECT
  `
}
```

It's useful when you wish to add things like declarative `@directive` to your `GraphQLSchema`, which affects only the output of the codegen.

For example, let's add a custom `@directive` that tells the codegen to ignore a specific `type`:

```js
module.exports = {
  plugin(schema, documents, config, info) {
    const typesMap = schema.getTypeMap()

    return Object.keys(typesMap)
      .filter(typeName => {
        const type = typesMap[typeName]
        const { astNode } = type

        if (astNode?.directives?.find(d => d.name.value === 'ignore')) {
          return false
        }

        return true
      })
      .join('\n')
  },
  addToSchema: /* GraphQL */ `
    directive @ignore on OBJECT
  `
}
```
