website/src/pages/docs/custom-codegen/using-visitor.mdx, before:

# Visitor Pattern

Most of the codegen's plugins are written with a design-pattern called [Visitor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Visitor_pattern).

In addition, GraphQL has an internal mechanism for "visiting" `GraphQLSchema` and GraphQL operations, and you can use it to transform your GraphQL definitions into a custom output.

You can call a custom function on each AST node and transform it into something else with a visitor pattern.

You can use [ASTExplorer](https://astexplorer.net) and see how GraphQL represents its definitions in a JSON structure. You can also use this to understand which function will be called each time.

In [graphql.org](https://graphql.org/graphql-js/language/#visit) you can find the detailed API documentation we will use in this section.

## Basic Visitor

In this example, we will transform a basic type definition into a list of types and fields:

From:

```graphql
type MyType {
  myField: String!
}

type MyOtherType {
  myOtherField: Int!
}
```

To

```
MyType.myField
MyOtherType.myOtherField
```

To get started with a basic visitor, start by extracting the `astNode` of your `GraphQLSchema`:

```js {5}
const { getCachedDocumentNodeFromSchema } = require('@graphql-codegen/plugin-helpers')

module.exports = {
  plugin(schema, documents, config) {
    const astNode = getCachedDocumentNodeFromSchema(schema) // Transforms the GraphQLSchema into ASTNode
  }
}
```

Then, create your initial visitor, in our case, we would like to transform a `FieldDefinition` and `ObjectTypeDefinition`, so let's create an object with a stub definitions, an use `visit` to run it:

```js {8-13}
const { getCachedDocumentNodeFromSchema } = require('@graphql-codegen/plugin-helpers')
const { visit } = require('graphql')

module.exports = {
  plugin(schema, documents, config) {
    const astNode = getCachedDocumentNodeFromSchema(schema) // Transforms the GraphQLSchema into ASTNode
    const visitor = {
      FieldDefinition(node) {
        // This function triggered per each field
      },
      ObjectTypeDefinition(node) {
        // This function triggered per each type
      }
    }

    const result = visit(astNode, { leave: visitor })

    return result.definitions.join('\n')
  }
}
```

Now, let's implement `ObjectTypeDefinition` and `FieldDefinition`:

```js {8-15}
const { getCachedDocumentNodeFromSchema } = require('@graphql-codegen/plugin-helpers')
const { visit } = require('graphql')

module.exports = {
  plugin(schema, documents, config) {
    const astNode = getCachedDocumentNodeFromSchema(schema) // Transforms the GraphQLSchema into ASTNode
    const visitor = {
      FieldDefinition(node) {
        // Transform the field AST node into a string, containing only the name of the field
        return node.name.value
      },
      ObjectTypeDefinition(node) {
        // "node.fields" is an array of strings, because we transformed it using "FieldDefinition".
        return node.fields.map(field => `${node.name.value}.${field}`).join('\n')
      }
    }

    const result = visit(astNode, { leave: visitor })

    return result.definitions.join('\n')
  }
}
```

## Codegen and Visitors

This repository also contains a set of utils that might help you to write plugins faster using the visitor pattern.

All those utils are part of `@graphql-codegen/visitor-plugin-common` package.

It includes a set of Visitor classes that you can use and extend to implement your plugin quickly:

For example, `BaseVisitor` is a class that contains a simple implementation and utils for plugin configuration and lets you quickly implement plugins compatible with `namingConvention` and `scalars` configuration.

[You can find an example for using it here](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/blob/master/packages/plugins/typescript/mongodb/src/visitor.ts#L38).

- `BaseTypesVisitor` is a class that contains implementation for converting types, interfaces, unions, enums, and fields. It's the base implementation for [`flow`](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/blob/master/packages/plugins/flow/flow/src/visitor.ts#L12) and [`typescript`](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/blob/master/packages/plugins/typescript/typescript/src/visitor.ts#L18) plugins

- `BaseResolversVisitor` is a class that contains implementation for generating a resolvers signature, it's the base implementation for [`flow-resolvers`](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/blob/master/packages/plugins/flow/resolvers/src/visitor.ts#L10) and [`typescript-resolvers`](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/blob/master/packages/plugins/typescript/resolvers/src/visitor.ts#L13)

- `BaseDocumentsVisitor` is class that contains implementation for transforming GraphQL operations (query/mutation/subscription/fragment) with a recursive handler for selection-sets. It's the base implementation for [`flow-operations`](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/blob/master/packages/plugins/flow/operations/src/visitor.ts#L14) and [`typescript-operations`](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/blob/master/packages/plugins/typescript/operations/src/visitor.ts#L15)

- `ClientSideBaseVisitor` is a class that contains implementation for creating client-side code for consuming GraphQL operations, it's in use by `typescript-apollo-angular`, `typescript-react-apollo`, `typescript-vue-apollo` and `typescript-apollo-stencil` plugins

To create a custom plugin, you can use the above classes as a base and extend it as you wish.

Commit message:

SEO: add `description` to docs (#9168)
* SEO: add `description` to docs

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

* prettier

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

website/src/pages/docs/custom-codegen/using-visitor.mdx, after:

---
description: Learn how to write your own plugins for GraphQL Code Generator. Most of the codegen's plugins are written with a design-pattern called Visitor.
---

# Visitor Pattern

Most of the codegen's plugins are written with a design-pattern called [Visitor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Visitor_pattern).

In addition, GraphQL has an internal mechanism for "visiting" `GraphQLSchema` and GraphQL operations, and you can use it to transform your GraphQL definitions into a custom output.

You can call a custom function on each AST node and transform it into something else with a visitor pattern.

You can use [ASTExplorer](https://astexplorer.net) and see how GraphQL represents its definitions in a JSON structure. You can also use this to understand which function will be called each time.

In [graphql.org](https://graphql.org/graphql-js/language/#visit) you can find the detailed API documentation we will use in this section.

## Basic Visitor

In this example, we will transform a basic type definition into a list of types and fields:

From:

```graphql
type MyType {
  myField: String!
}

type MyOtherType {
  myOtherField: Int!
}
```

To

```
MyType.myField
MyOtherType.myOtherField
```

To get started with a basic visitor, start by extracting the `astNode` of your `GraphQLSchema`:

```js {5}
const { getCachedDocumentNodeFromSchema } = require('@graphql-codegen/plugin-helpers')

module.exports = {
  plugin(schema, documents, config) {
    const astNode = getCachedDocumentNodeFromSchema(schema) // Transforms the GraphQLSchema into ASTNode
  }
}
```

Then, create your initial visitor, in our case, we would like to transform a `FieldDefinition` and `ObjectTypeDefinition`, so let's create an object with a stub definitions, an use `visit` to run it:

```js {8-13}
const { getCachedDocumentNodeFromSchema } = require('@graphql-codegen/plugin-helpers')
const { visit } = require('graphql')

module.exports = {
  plugin(schema, documents, config) {
    const astNode = getCachedDocumentNodeFromSchema(schema) // Transforms the GraphQLSchema into ASTNode
    const visitor = {
      FieldDefinition(node) {
        // This function triggered per each field
      },
      ObjectTypeDefinition(node) {
        // This function triggered per each type
      }
    }

    const result = visit(astNode, { leave: visitor })

    return result.definitions.join('\n')
  }
}
```

Now, let's implement `ObjectTypeDefinition` and `FieldDefinition`:

```js {8-15}
const { getCachedDocumentNodeFromSchema } = require('@graphql-codegen/plugin-helpers')
const { visit } = require('graphql')

module.exports = {
  plugin(schema, documents, config) {
    const astNode = getCachedDocumentNodeFromSchema(schema) // Transforms the GraphQLSchema into ASTNode
    const visitor = {
      FieldDefinition(node) {
        // Transform the field AST node into a string, containing only the name of the field
        return node.name.value
      },
      ObjectTypeDefinition(node) {
        // "node.fields" is an array of strings, because we transformed it using "FieldDefinition".
        return node.fields.map(field => `${node.name.value}.${field}`).join('\n')
      }
    }

    const result = visit(astNode, { leave: visitor })

    return result.definitions.join('\n')
  }
}
```

## Codegen and Visitors

This repository also contains a set of utils that might help you to write plugins faster using the visitor pattern.

All those utils are part of `@graphql-codegen/visitor-plugin-common` package.

It includes a set of Visitor classes that you can use and extend to implement your plugin quickly:

For example, `BaseVisitor` is a class that contains a simple implementation and utils for plugin configuration and lets you quickly implement plugins compatible with `namingConvention` and `scalars` configuration.

[You can find an example for using it here](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/blob/master/packages/plugins/typescript/mongodb/src/visitor.ts#L38).

- `BaseTypesVisitor` is a class that contains implementation for converting types, interfaces, unions, enums, and fields. It's the base implementation for [`flow`](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/blob/master/packages/plugins/flow/flow/src/visitor.ts#L12) and [`typescript`](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/blob/master/packages/plugins/typescript/typescript/src/visitor.ts#L18) plugins

- `BaseResolversVisitor` is a class that contains implementation for generating a resolvers signature, it's the base implementation for [`flow-resolvers`](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/blob/master/packages/plugins/flow/resolvers/src/visitor.ts#L10) and [`typescript-resolvers`](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/blob/master/packages/plugins/typescript/resolvers/src/visitor.ts#L13)

- `BaseDocumentsVisitor` is class that contains implementation for transforming GraphQL operations (query/mutation/subscription/fragment) with a recursive handler for selection-sets. It's the base implementation for [`flow-operations`](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/blob/master/packages/plugins/flow/operations/src/visitor.ts#L14) and [`typescript-operations`](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator/blob/master/packages/plugins/typescript/operations/src/visitor.ts#L15)

- `ClientSideBaseVisitor` is a class that contains implementation for creating client-side code for consuming GraphQL operations, it's in use by `typescript-apollo-angular`, `typescript-react-apollo`, `typescript-vue-apollo` and `typescript-apollo-stencil` plugins

To create a custom plugin, you can use the above classes as a base and extend it as you wish.
