website/src/pages/docs/custom-codegen/validate-configuration.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'

# Validate Plugin Configuration

Each plugin can also provide a function to validate the configuration before executing it.

You can use this function to:

- test for other plugin's existence (for example, if your plugin requires another plugin to function correctly)
- validate the name and path of the output file
- validate the schema or documents

And much more!

To add your plugin validation method, export a function called `validate` from your plugin file:

```js {7}
module.exports = {
  plugin(schema, documents, config, info) {
    const typesMap = schema.getTypeMap()

    return Object.keys(typesMap).join('\n')
  },
  validate(schema, documents, config, outputFile, allPlugins) {}
}
```

<Callout>
  `outputFile` is the name of the output file, and you can use it to enforce the specific filename of a specific file
  extension.
</Callout>

<Callout>
  `allPlugins` is a list of all plugins requested in this specific output file - use it to create dependencies between
  plugins.
</Callout>

You can now check the schema, documents, configuration, output file and sibling plugins, and in case something does not fits your requirements, throw an `Error`:

```js {9}
module.exports = {
  plugin(schema, documents, config, info) {
    const typesMap = schema.getTypeMap()

    return Object.keys(typesMap).join('\n')
  },
  validate(schema, documents, config, outputFile, allPlugins) {
    if (!config.mustHave) {
      throw new Error(`You must specify "mustHave" in my plugin configuration!`)
    }
  }
}
```

Commit message:

SEO: add `description` to docs (#9168)
* SEO: add `description` to docs

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

* prettier

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Tuval <tuval.simha@gmail.com>

website/src/pages/docs/custom-codegen/validate-configuration.mdx, after:

---
description: Learn how to create your own plugins for GraphQL Code Generator. You can use plugins to generate code, documents, or even to modify the schema.
---

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'

# Validate Plugin Configuration

Each plugin can also provide a function to validate the configuration before executing it.

You can use this function to:

- test for other plugin's existence (for example, if your plugin requires another plugin to function correctly)
- validate the name and path of the output file
- validate the schema or documents

And much more!

To add your plugin validation method, export a function called `validate` from your plugin file:

```js {7}
module.exports = {
  plugin(schema, documents, config, info) {
    const typesMap = schema.getTypeMap()

    return Object.keys(typesMap).join('\n')
  },
  validate(schema, documents, config, outputFile, allPlugins) {}
}
```

<Callout>
  `outputFile` is the name of the output file, and you can use it to enforce the specific filename of a specific file
  extension.
</Callout>

<Callout>
  `allPlugins` is a list of all plugins requested in this specific output file - use it to create dependencies between
  plugins.
</Callout>

You can now check the schema, documents, configuration, output file and sibling plugins, and in case something does not fits your requirements, throw an `Error`:

```js {9}
module.exports = {
  plugin(schema, documents, config, info) {
    const typesMap = schema.getTypeMap()

    return Object.keys(typesMap).join('\n')
  },
  validate(schema, documents, config, outputFile, allPlugins) {
    if (!config.mustHave) {
      throw new Error(`You must specify "mustHave" in my plugin configuration!`)
    }
  }
}
```
